2021/05/11, Wangwukong | Stone | Getty ImagesChinese stocks are currently cheaper than their U.S. and global counterparts, according to analysts at Goldman Sachs, who believe investors should act now to make the most of "discounted prices."The Wall Street bank listed more than two dozen Chinese stocks including a raft of tech and chipmaking firms, in a research note published Thursday, saying they had attractive valuations and likely solid growth."May has historically been a tough month for Chinese stocks but we'd buy on any seasonal weakness," the analysts led by Kinger Lau stated.Goldman recommended both Chinese cyclicals — whose prices tend to move up and down with the economy — and growth stocks, which investors expect to do better than the wider market.The bank's top stocks to buy include:

2021/05/07, In this articleGSA trader works at the Goldman Sachs stall on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Brendan McDermid | ReutersGoldman Sachs has formally kicked off the cryptocurrency trading era on Wall Street.The bank informed its markets personnel on Thursday that a newly created cryptocurrency desk had successfully traded two kinds of bitcoin-linked derivatives, according to an internal memo obtained exclusively by CNBC.The crypto team exists within the firm's global currencies and emerging markets trading division, reporting to Goldman partner Rajesh Venkataramani, who wrote the memo, and is part of the bank's overall digital assets effort led by Mathew McDermott.Goldman Sachs, a dominant global investment bank for trading fixed income and equities, had been mulling the creation of a bitcoin trading desk since at least 2017. The firm tabled those plans initially and restarted the crypto trading team in March, Reuters reported earlier this year. Thursday's memo was the first time New York-based Goldman officially acknowledged its involvement in crytpocurrency trading.Under CEO David Solomon, Goldman has said it is seeking to broaden its market presence by "selectively onboarding" crypto trading institutions to expand offerings. The firm also said it launched a new software platform this week that provides the latest cryptocurrency prices and news to clients.Banks, including Goldman and rival Morgan Stanley, had announced plans to offer bitcoin investments to rich clients in their wealth management divisions but have mostly stayed away from the volatile asset in their Wall Street trading operations. Traders at firms including JPMorgan Chase have been asking managers when they could begin handling bitcoin, CNBC has reported.The derivatives Goldman traded, bitcoin futures and nondeliverable forwards, are ways to wager on the price of bitcoin. The contracts are settled in cash and don't require that Goldman deals with actual bitcoin, called "physical bitcoin" in the industry, because the bank isn't yet in a position to do so, Venkataraman noted in the memo.Here is the memo:May 6, 2021Formation of Cryptocurrency Trading TeamI am pleased to announce the formation of the firm's cryptocurrency trading team, which will be our centralized desk for managing cryptocurrency risk for our clients. The Crypto trading team will be a part of Global Currencies and Emerging Markets (GCEM), reporting to me, within the firm's Digital Assets effort led by Mathew McDermott.As part of our initial launch, we have successfully executed Bitcoin (BTC) NDFs and CME BTC future trades on a principal basis, all cash settling. Looking ahead, as we continue to broaden our market presence, albeit in a measured way, we are selectively onboarding new liquidity providers to help us in expanding our offering.In addition, yesterday we launched our Digital Assets dashboard which provides daily and intraday cryptocurrency market data and news to our clients. We invite you to highlight the dashboard to your clients. For more information on trade approval and onboarding, contact the Digital Assets team.Please note, the firm is not in a position to trade bitcoin, or any cryptocurrency (including Ethereum) on a physical basis. Rajesh VenkataramaniBecome a smarter investor with CNBC Pro. Get stock picks, analyst calls, exclusive interviews and access to CNBC TV. Sign up to start a free trial today.

2021/05/10, The logos of Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft displayed on a mobile phone and a laptop screen.Justin Tallis | AFP via Getty ImagesThe so-called FAAMG stocks — Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, and Google-parent Alphabet — have evolved into dominant juggernauts in the market, but Goldman Sachs is warning about a few threats to the high-flying group.Investors are wondering if there will be a reckoning that causes a shift in the market leadership of these five names. Overall, Goldman Sachs does not see these technology darlings falling out of favor anytime soon.However, the group faces a handful of threats.High market concentration, changes in the tax code, rising interest rates, lofty valuations and intervention from regulators are Goldman's top concerns for the beloved FAAMG names.FAAMG stocks

2021/05/04, In this articleGSJPMA trader works at the Goldman Sachs stall on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Brendan McDermid | ReutersGoldman Sachs told workers in the U.S. and the United Kingdom on Tuesday that the bank wants them ready to return to the office by mid-June as Covid-19 cases in those nations decline.Goldman CEO David Solomon wrote in a message viewed by CNBC that, "in the US, we ask those who have not yet done so to make plans to be in a position to return to the office by Monday, June 14," a move that makes the New York firm one of Wall Street's first major banks to recall wide swaths of employees.The bank wants its British employees to be prepared to return to physical locations by June 21. News of Goldman's plans to bring workers back was reported earlier by Bloomberg News.The message, which was co-signed by Chief Operating Officer John Waldron and Chief Financial Officer Stephen Scherr, noted that each of Goldman's teams will have specific instructions to return to work as conditions and capacity shift."While each community is at a different stage of managing through the pandemic, we continue to be encouraged by the rollout of vaccines in a number of jurisdictions, as well as by the effectiveness of the health and safety protocols we have put in place across Goldman Sachs campuses to protect our people," the executives wrote."We know from experience that our culture of collaboration, innovation and apprenticeship thrives when our people come together, and we look forward to having more of our colleagues back in the office so that they can experience that once again on a regular basis," they added.Goldman declined to comment on this story.JPMorgan Chase, the nation's biggest bank, has already told its U.S. workers that they should begin getting used to returning this month with the goal of having half of employees rotating through the office by July."We want people back to work and my view is that sometime in September, October it will look just like it did before," JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said Tuesday during The Wall Street Journal CEO Council. "And everyone is going to be happy with it, and yes, the commute, you know people don't like commuting, but so what.""I'm about to cancel all my Zoom meetings," he added. "I'm done with it."Enjoyed this article?For exclusive stock picks, investment ideas and CNBC global livestreamSign up for CNBC ProStart your free trial now

2021/05/07, Jan Hatzius, chief economist of Goldman Sachs.Jonathan Fickles | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs chief economist said Friday that the unexpectedly weak April jobs report was likely due to statistical issues and did not signal hidden weaknesses in the U.S. economic recovery. The U.S. economy added 266,000 jobs in April, according to the Labor Department, coming in well under expectations. However, Goldman's Jan Hatzius said on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" that the report appeared to be "distorted" and shouldn't change minds about the direction of the U.S. economy.

2021/05/03, Viaframe | Corbis | Getty ImagesAs the race to develop self-driving and electric vehicle (EV) technology heats up, Goldman Sachs has picked three global car stocks to buy.Analysts at the investment bank said the gap is widening between automakers innovating in these areas, and those lagging behind.Driverless cars and other autonomous technologies are a hot topic, as Tesla is set to release its first full self-driving technology (known as FSD) this summer."The market is very interested in the progress of Tesla's FSD technology that is set for release this summer," the Goldman analysts wrote in a note Saturday, with all eyes on the level of autonomy it achieves.The analysts' auto picks — all Japanese firms — have a potential upside to their share prices of at least 27%, and are moving closer to launching new technology.The stocks are:

2021/05/12, While much of the world was still dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, Chinese shoppers strolled through stores in the Sanlitun area of Beijing, China, on June 6, 2020.Costfoto | Barcroft Media | Getty ImagesJust-in quarterly earnings reveal how China strategies can pay off for some companies — an investment idea Goldman Sachs analysts are betting on.In portfolio strategy research published May 6, the analysts laid out stocks that generate about a fifth or more of their sales in China. The country's relatively early struggle with the coronavirus pandemic versus other major countries means hundreds of millions of locals are now ready to spend more.As the five-day Labor Day holiday this month shows, Chinese stuck within national borders didn't hold back on travel as Trip.com says bookings more than tripled from a year ago.Goldman's selection focuses on European brands, which avoid the potential overhang from Beijing's tensions with the U.S.Here are some of the analysts' top picks, broken down by industry category:

2021/04/26, President Joe Biden exits after speaking in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, April 21, 2021.Sarah Silbiger | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesSome tech and green energy stocks could be particularly exposed to selling pressure if the Biden administration hikes capital gains taxes, according to Goldman Sachs.President Joe Biden will reportedly propose moving the capital gains tax rate for high-income earners to 39.6%, which would be pushed above 40% when accounting for an existing surcharge to fund programs from the Affordable Care Act.That could cause investors to take a closer look at whether to sell their biggest winners. Goldman Sachs researchers looked at four periods over the last decade to identify some of the stocks that might be most at risk.

2021/04/26, A view of the City of London on a clear day.Vuk Valcic | SOPA Images | LightRocket via Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs has upgraded its forecasts for the U.K. economy in 2021, and now sees it outpacing the U.S.The U.K.'s flash composite purchasing managers' index reading for April surged to 60 from 56.4 in March, its highest level since November 2013 and a far sharper incline than anticipated, as the country embarks on a phased exit from nationwide lockdown measures.Retail sales also vastly outstripped expectations in March to climb 5.4% from the previous month, while a GfK survey showed British consumer sentiment this month rising to its highest point since the pandemic."Moreover, Covid case growth has remained low and the vaccine roll-out has surged ahead, with half of the population vaccinated. We therefore see the government's reopening plans as on track, with phase 3 to start on May 17," Goldman chief European economist Sven Jari Stehn said in a research note Sunday night."As a result, we expect very strong growth in the April and May data, and remain comfortable with our 5.5% (not annualized) growth forecast for Q2," Stehn added.VIDEO3:0303:03FTSE 100 index still has room to run to the upside, UBS strategist saysSquawk Box EuropeAlmost 33.7 million people have now received their first vaccine dose in the U.K., with daily Covid-19 cases falling steadily to 1,712 on Sunday.Monthly GDP in the U.K. increased 0.4% in February, roughly in line with expectations, but following recent upward revisions to real GDP and last week's strong indicators, Goldman Sachs has now upped its growth forecast to a "striking" 7.8% for the whole of 2021.In February, the Wall Street titan upped its forecasts for U.S. growth in 2021 to 6.8%, while the International Monetary Fund currently projects 6.4% growth in the U.S. and 5.3% in the U.K.The U.K. economy shrank by 9.9% in 2020, according to the Office for National Statistics, its largest annual contraction since the Great Frost of 1709 as the country was forced into strict lockdown measures for longer periods than many of its European peers.U.S. GDP shrank 3.5% in 2020, the largest decline since 1946, when the U.S. demobilized after World War II.Detachment of mobility from GDPStehn's view was supported over the weekend by JPMorgan economist Allan Monks, who noted that a gradual detachment of mobility measures from economic performance bodes well for the U.K.'s economic recovery. This would mean that the country's GDP growth is more likely to remain on course even without a full return to office working and unencumbered travel."The linkage between the two has weakened over time, in sectors involving both higher and lower levels of social contact. But the relationship involving workplace mobility and the broader economy, i.e., where social contact is the lowest, is the weakest," Monks said in a research note."Together with survey evidence of sharp increases in both household and business expectations for the future, this raises our confidence that a significant GDP rebound is possible without a full normalization in mobility."

2021/05/10, FireEye information analysts work at the company's office in Milpitas, California.Beck Diefenbach | ReutersThe cyberattack that knocked a key U.S. gas pipeline offline should be another positive for the stocks in growing cybersecurity industry, Goldman Sachs said in a note to clients on Monday.A criminal group known as DarkSide is responsible for the attack on pipeline company Colonial, according to the FBI. Colonial said Monday afternoon it hoped to have the pipeline running again by the end of the week.The news did not seem to boost cybersecurity stocks as a whole on Monday, but Goldman said the event could help accelerate the long-term growth for the companies.

2021/05/06, Tim McKibben, left, a senior installer for the solar company, Sunrun, and installer Aaron Newsom install solar panels on the roof of a home in Granada Hills.Mel Melcon | Los Angeles Times | Getty ImagesSunrun is a "bellwether" solar company and shares should rally in the near-term, Goldman Sachs said in a note to clients Thursday while reiterating its buy rating on the company.The call comes after Sunrun reported strong earnings on Wednesday after the bell during what's been a difficult time for solar stocks as factors including the chip shortage weigh on the sector.

2021/04/29, A TikTok logo seen displayed on a smartphone.Filip Radwanski | SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs has said record labels and music publishers are set for a strong rebound as younger audiences continue to flock to TikTok to watch short videos.Songs feature heavily on TikTok, which saw downloads soar as the pandemic hit in early 2020. Newly-signed licensing deals with music publishers will provide a boost with scope for "significantly more upside" for the content owners, the bank's analysts said.They see music industry revenues rising by 21% this year as live performances resume after the pandemic. The streaming surge on Spotify and other music platforms is also set to continue, the analysts said in a research note published Monday.Goldman picked two stocks in particular set to benefit from this rebound:

2021/04/28, A pumpjack (oil derrick) and oil refinery in Seminole, West Texas.David Sucsy | Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs is forecasting the largest jump in oil demand on record as the world opens up again amid the Covid-19 vaccination rollout.The firm is raising its outlook on oil based on this expected upswing in demand. "The magnitude of the coming change in the volume of demand — a change which supply cannot match — must not be understated," it said Wednesday in a note to clients.

2021/04/28, Tomasz Zajda / EyeEm | EyeEm | Getty ImagesAnalysts at Goldman Sachs have picked their favorite video streaming stocks in a hotly competitive market, as firms add new subscribers, productions resume and the economy reopens after coronavirus lockdowns.Media companies had to postpone shoots as the pandemic hit last year, while also contending with cord-cutting, an ad decline and a fierce rivalry over subscribers.Last week, streaming giant Netflix reported a dramatic slowdown in subscribers and saw shares fall as much as 7% the following day as it said production pauses caused slower paid membership growth.Now, as other firms are set to report quarterly earnings, Goldman analysts led by Brett Feldman listed top U.S. streaming picks in a research note published Tuesday, with one "significantly undervalued and underappreciated," by investors.Goldman's two buy-rated streaming stocks are:

2021/04/19, A trader works at the Goldman Sachs stall on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Brendan McDermid | ReutersGoldman Sachs has recommended investors go long on the euro, as the dollar touched its lowest point since early March on Monday.A long position is the purchase of an asset in the expectation that it will rise in value. During Monday morning trade in Europe, the dollar index was down 0.5% against a basket of major currencies, to trade at 91.156 – it's lowest level since March 4.On Friday, Goldman Sachs upped its forecasts for the euro against the greenback to suggest more appreciation in the near term. It raised its three-month target to $1.25 from $1.21, while holding its 12-month forecast at $1.28.Analysts, led by Co-head of Global FX, Rates and EM Strategy Zach Pandl, also issued a new long trade recommendation for the euro with a $1.25 target price and a stop of $1.175, meaning Goldman will abandon the trade if it the euro sinks below that level. The common currency was changing hands at $1.2032 on Monday."Market expectations for European growth should improve over the next few months on the back of faster vaccinations and falling Covid-19 hospitalizations," they said. To date, Europe's vaccination program has lagged some other developed countries', however it is seen picking up into the summer.VIDEO2:4402:44Earnings will be a key catalyst for European stocks this quarter, strategist saysSquawk Box EuropeGoldman's euro call comes after equity strategists at the bank raised their price target for the pan-European Stoxx 600 index. They expect a 10% total return over the next 12 months, outpacing the 6% expected from the S&P 500. The analysts gave a number of additional reasons why the euro looked set to rise. These included the anticipated acceleration in economic growth in Europe, which they said would likely see the European Central Bank slow the rate of its asset purchases under its pandemic emergency purchase programme (PEPP) after its June meeting.The International Monetary Fund said last week that Europe's economy is on track to return to its pre-crisis levels in 2022, growing by 3.9% next year."We think the combination of rising euro area growth expectations, solid equity returns for the region, initial normalization signals from the ECB, and more stable Fed pricing will extend the recent turn higher in the euro," the Goldman analysts said in the note.They added that the main risk to their euro trade would be unexpected hawkish tones from Fed officials, particularly signs that the central bank's June Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) will indicate a 2023 rate hike."On the broad dollar, the current market debate boils down to whether Q1 (first quarter) strength reflected sustainable U.S. outperformance due to the Biden fiscal agenda, or whether it reflected an earlier U.S. vaccination timeline and the repricing of the Fed," Pandl added in an email Monday."We think it's the latter, so with other countries speeding up their vaccinations and Fed pricing stabilizing, the dollar can turn lower again."

2021/05/03, A view of the Exxon Mobil refinery in Baytown, Texas.Jessica Rinaldi | ReutersGoldman reiterated its buy rating on shares of Exxon following the company's first-quarter earnings results, with the firm pointing to the oil giant's improving balance sheet.Analysts also noted that improving commodities prices as well as a global economic recovery are supportive for Exxon.

2021/04/30, VIDEO2:5502:55Goldman Sachs is 'very bullish' on this North Asian marketSquawk BoxThe global economy is at "peak momentum" now and in the next quarter — in terms of accelerating quarterly growth, according to Goldman Sachs' Timothy Moe.That strong growth will likely be a "very constructive backdrop" for earnings, Moe, co-head of Asia macro research and chief Asia-Pacific equity strategist at Goldman, told CNBC on Thursday."Overall, we're looking this year at very significant — both U.S. and global — economic growth," he said.Here's one Asian market that could see a 16% rise due to the "significant lift" for the world economy, according to Goldman Sachs.

2021/04/19, Anne Boden, CEO of Starling Bank, speaking at Web Summit 2019 in Lisbon, Portugal.Harry Murphy | Sportsfile for Web Summit via Getty ImagesLONDON — British digital bank Starling has raised £50 million ($69 million) in funding from Goldman Sachs' growth equity investment arm.The fresh cash comes on top of a £272 million investment round Starling announced last month that valued the online lender at £1.1 billion. The deal with Goldman is still subject to regulatory approval."Securing the support of another global financial heavyweight demonstrates the strength of demand from investors and represents yet another vote of confidence in Starling," said Starling CEO and founder Anne Boden.Starling is one of the U.K.'s biggest neobanks, a term used to describe the wave of fintech start-ups founded in the last decade with the aim of taking on the incumbent banks with branchless banking. It has more than £6 billion in deposits — up from £1 billion just over a year ago.Starling has looked to differentiate from rivals like Revolut and Monzo with a focus on small business banking. Of its 2 million total users, around 350,000 are business clients. Starling says it now holds a 6% share of Britain's SME banking market.VIDEO5:4205:42Jamie Dimon: Fintech poses a 'big threat' to major banksSquawk AlleyAnother thing that Starling says separates it from its competitors is that it's managed to turn a profit. Neobanks have been lossmaking for years and now are under heightened pressure to prove their businesses can make money.Goldman's investment in the company comes after reports that JPMorgan and Barclays had shown an interest in buying Starling, though Starling has denied this. Big banks are increasingly looking to partnerships with tech firms — both big and small — to remain relevant at a time when smartphone banking is commonplace.Goldman launched its own competing digital bank called Marcus in the U.K. in 2018. The bank temporarily paused applications for its easy-access savings account in Britain last year due to a surge in deposits during the country's initial Covid lockdown. It's since reopened applications to U.K. savers.And Goldman isn't the only U.S. banking giant taking on the U.K. market — JPMorgan is launching a digital banking brand of its own for British customers."Starling is one of the leading and most innovative digital banks in the U.K., with an ambitious technology-first leadership team and addressing a deep market opportunity," said Goldman Sachs Managing Director James Hayward. "We are delighted to be supporting their growth with this investment and believe the company has sustainable long-term earnings potential.Starling plans to use the fresh cash to expand its services in Europe and potentially make a merger or acquisition. The company last year restarted talks to secure a banking license in Ireland after initially putting them on hold due to the coronavirus pandemic.

2021/04/18, Tesla China-made Model 3 vehicles are seen during a delivery event at its factory in Shanghai, China January 7, 2020.Aly Song | ReutersThe oil demand landscape is changing, and that could affect a range of companies from electric vehicle companies to airlines to oil producers, according to Goldman Sachs.The firm doesn't anticipate peak oil demand this decade, but anticipates demand growth to be anemic beyond 2025. Much of that will be due to electrification, and the firm's estimates put demand for transport oil peaking in 2026.That said, the slowdown will be offset by growth for petrochemicals and jet fuel, according to analysts led by Nikhil Bhandari said.Ultimately, this will lead to winners and losers across industries.

2021/04/01, In this articleVIACGSMSSignage on the ViacomCBS headquarters during a winter storm in New York, U.S., on Friday, Feb. 19, 2021.Mark Kauzlarich | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMorgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs, two of the firms at the center of the Archegos Capital Management unwinding, played a variety of roles before, during and after the margin call.That is raising questions about whether the firms should have had a compliance function to intervene in their potentially conflicting roles in the same stock.One of the key triggers that led to the unwinding of Archegos was a tepid market response for a multibillion-dollar ViacomCBS secondary offering last Wednesday.While certain bankers at Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs were pitching that deal to investors, some of their peers in the prime brokerage division were growing increasingly concerned about the risk profile of one of their clients, a family office called Archegos, which had large, leveraged exposure to ViacomCBS.VIDEO3:5703:57Former SEC chair on need to modernize disclosure system and Archegos falloutSquawk BoxFollowing a 23% decline by ViacomCBS amid the secondary offering, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and a slew of other banks across Wall Street, triggered a margin call on Archegos.This prompted the two giant investment banks to seize Archegos' assets, including billions of dollars' worth of ViacomCBS stock, and sell it off through heavily discounted block trades. The move created significant pressure on the B shares of ViacomCBS, which plummeted 27% on Friday and another 7% the following Monday.Still, the timing of the events is raising questions over who at the firms knew what and when, amid the demise of Archegos and the collateral damage in several stocks, including ViacomCBS.Goldman Sachs spokesperson Maeve Duvally said, "There are strong informational barriers between the parts of the firm that manage capital raising for corporate clients and our relationships with institutional investors." Morgan Stanley declined to comment."There's definitely the potential for a conflict," said Harvey Pitt, former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. "The fact that if there were sufficient leverage issues raised that it could promote selling and selling pressure and indeed force the selling pressure, makes it very real that the potential for a conflict was always present."By March 22, ViacomCBS shares had surged more than 165% in 2021, closing above $100 per share. This marked a nearly 800% rise from its 2020 trough, almost exactly a year prior.The company sought to capitalize on its elevated share price to sell $3 billion worth of stock into the market; the underwriters hawking the stock included Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan as lead bookrunners, along with Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, Mizuho and others serving in a more passive capacity.Those banks faced a tepid response from the market, pricing 20 million Class B shares at $85 each and another 10 million convertible preferred shares at $100 each on March 24. The stock declined on news of the placement, and that move was one of the main catalysts that led to increased calls for collateral from Archegos, according to sources close to the matter.The family office was extremely leveraged to a long position in ViacomCBS and therefore, was open to pressure from even slight declines in the stock price. Investors who bought ViacomCBS at $85 saw those shares worth $48 just days later. As the lead bookrunner in the deal, Morgan Stanley sold more shares than the other firms involved — about 4 million shares through the convertible preferred, and another 9 million through the Class B common stock offering. Goldman Sachs sold about 323,000 through the convertible preferred and another 646,000 through the common stock offering. Early on March 26, just two days after the secondary, the Archegos-related block sales began. The first batch was through Goldman Sachs, which offered discounted shares in Baidu, Tencent Music and Vipshop, people familiar with the trades said.Then, the firm unloaded about $1.7 billion worth of Viacom midday — 35 million shares, priced at $48 each, said the people, who asked not to be named. That represented a 44% discount to the secondary sale just two days prior.Meanwhile, Morgan Stanley was busy offering blocks of its own that day, in names like Discovery, Shopify and Farfetch. The firm's Viacom share sale — a similar size to Goldman's — was sold two days later, on Sunday evening. The banks — specifically, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs — which were able to quickly exit those positions that they subsumed from liquidating Archegos came out of the event relatively unscathed.Those who had reportedly slower responses could be facing billions of dollars in losses. A JPMorgan note estimated global losses for firms exposed to Archegos could be a combined $10 billion, with Nomura and Credit Suisse facing the bulk of the impact. Both Nomura and Credit Suisse shares plummeted about 19% since they each announced they'd face significant losses from the event. Shares of Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are little changed over that same time period.-- With reporting from CNBC's Dawn Giel and Ritika Shah.

2021/04/14, In this articleGSDavid Solomon, CEO, Goldman Sachs, speaking at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Jan. 23, 2020.Adam Galacia | CNBCGoldman Sachs on Wednesday blew past analysts' expectations with record first-quarter net profits and revenues on strong performance from the firm's investment banking and trading businesses.The bank posted per-share earnings of $18.60, crushing the $10.22 estimate of analysts surveyed by Refinitiv. The results represented growth of 498% from a year earlier. Revenue of $17.7 billion easily topped expectations of $12.6 billion.Shares of the New York-based bank rose 4.5% following the release, which showed that Goldman's first-quarter revenues more than doubled on a year-over-year basis. As of the latest reading, the stock was on pace for its best day since January."We have been working hard alongside our clients in preparation for a world beyond the pandemic and a more stable economic environment," CEO David Solomon said in the earnings release. "Our businesses remain very well positioned to help our clients reposition for the recovery, and that strength is reflected in the record revenues and earnings achieved this quarter."Expectations were high for Goldman as the economic recovery and record first-quarter issuance of blank-check special purpose acquisition companies were expected to lift investment banking revenues. Earlier on Wednesday, JPMorgan Chase posted robust trading results for the first quarter and a $5.2 billion tailwind from releasing funds it had set aside for loan losses that did not materialize.Here are Goldman's numbers:Earnings: $18.60 per share vs. $10.22 per share expected by analysts polled by Refinitiv.Revenue: $17.7 billion vs. $12.6 billion expected.Trading Revenue: Fixed Income: $3.89 billion, Equities: $3.69 billionInvestment Banking: $3.77 billionAt Goldman, the deluge of SPACs helped push investing banking net revenues to a record $3.77 billion for the quarter, including record equity underwriting. The headline investment banking revenue number exceeded the $2.9 billion estimate and represented a 73% surge from a year earlier.Financial advisory revenues totaled $1.12 billion."The increase in Underwriting net revenues was due to significantly higher net revenues in both Equity underwriting, primarily driven by strong initial public offerings activity," the bank said in its release. "The increase in Financial advisory net revenues reflected a significant increase in completed mergers and acquisitions transactions."Asset management generated record quarterly net revenues of $4.61 billion, reflecting record net revenues from equity investments."Goldman is converting mind share to market share probably better than any player" quarter over quarter and year over year, wrote Wells Fargo analyst Mike Mayo. "The main question is sustainability, but our view is that Goldman is in the sweet spot for a booming [investment banking]/advisory business as each company in each industry globally has a rethink of its business strategy post-pandemic."In its Global Markets unit, traders produced a 47% bump in revenue from a year earlier to $7.58 billion. That sum was split between $3.89 billion in fixed-income trading and $3.69 billion in equities, which reflected year-over-year growth of 31% and 68%, respectively.The bank said the strong growth in fixed-income trading was thanks in part to "significantly higher" net sales in mortgages and interest rate products.Of the six biggest U.S. banks, Goldman gets the largest share of its revenue from Wall Street activities including trading and investment banking. For the past few years that has been a detriment to the firm, as retail banking fueled by cheap consumer deposits had driven the industry's record profits.That dynamic reversed during the coronavirus pandemic, when firms with sizable consumer operations had to set aside tens of billions of dollars for anticipated loan losses, causing banks like Wells Fargo to post their first quarterly loss since the financial crisis.Goldman shares have climbed 24% this year, roughly matching the gain of the KBW Bank Index.— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed reporting.Enjoyed this article?For exclusive stock picks, investment ideas and CNBC global livestreamSign up for CNBC ProStart your free trial now

2021/04/20, Nvidia founder, President and CEO Jen-Hsun HuangGetty ImagesElectric vehicle manufacturers aren't the only beneficiaries from the boom in autonomous vehicles. Semiconductor companies – the firms behind the technology used for these safety features – may also outperform, according to Goldman Sachs.

2021/04/20, An aerial image of Beijing, ChinaDuKai photographer | Moment | Getty ImagesAnalysts at Goldman Sachs have picked a number of fast-growing Chinese brands that it says younger consumers are ready to pay a premium for.The bank put together a list of its "hottest" stocks to watch and recommended buying both established and upcoming players.After the Covid-19 outbreak, people in China are upgrading to healthier food and drink brands and Goldman's "winners" are set to tap into the trend. Some of its picks are set to reach $1 billion in annual revenue in the next three to five years, the bank estimated.Goldman's buy-rated stocks include:

2021/04/29, Silhouette of a mobile user seen next to a screen projection of the Apple logo in this picture illustration taken March 28, 2018.Dado Ruvic | ReutersApple's strong performance over the last two quarters has forced Goldman Sachs to back away from its bear case on the stock.The tech giant on Wednesday reported blowout results for its fiscal second quarter, with iPhone sales easily beating expectations and climbing more than 60% year over year. In response, Goldman analyst Rod Hall upgraded the stock to neutral from sell, saying that the strength of the flagship iPhone was undeniable.

2021/03/29, A Goldman Sachs sign at at NYSE.Brendan McDermid | ReutersShareholders of Goldman Sachs argued at the Supreme Court on Monday that they should be allowed to sue the investment banking giant over its generic statements about being free of conflicts of interest.The shareholders said these statements proved untrue and artificially inflated Goldman's share price.The case, which dates back to the bank's marketing of risky securities ahead of the 2008 financial crisis, could make it more difficult for stock owners to bring class-action securities fraud suits in the future. But during about two hours of argument by phone, the justices signaled that they were unlikely to issue a sweeping ruling in favor of either side.The case centers around Goldman's marketing of a synthetic collateralized debt obligation called Abacus and other CDOs in which it failed to disclose that it or its major clients were heavily betting against the products. Goldman settled with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2010 for $550 million over fraud charges related to Abacus, the largest penalty ever faced by a Wall Street bank.The shareholders, including the Arkansas Teacher Retirement System, say they lost billions when news of the SEC investigation was revealed, tanking Goldman's stock price. The case is securities fraud, they argue, because Goldman had made false statements such as "our clients' interests always come first" and "We have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest."To date, the case has not moved beyond the class certification stage, meaning that the shareholders are still fighting to be able to sue collectively. Goldman has argued that the statements in question were too generic to have an impact on the price of its stock. The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejected that argument in an April opinion that sided with the shareholders.The questions raised at oral argument suggested that there may be a majority of justices willing to overturn the 2nd Circuit's ruling in favor of Goldman's shareholders, but they are unlikely to contradict much of its reasoning.The justices pointed out that the positions of the lawyers arguing for each side seemed to converge since the court first agreed to hear the case. The attorney for Goldman Sachs, for instance, dropped the bank's earlier position that generic statements could never be the basis of a securities fraud suit."It seems to me you've both moved to the middle," Justice Amy Coney Barrett, an appointee of former President Donald Trump, told Tom Goldstein, the attorney for the shareholders, at one point. Goldstein is a partner at Goldstein & Russell and the publisher of SCOTUSBlog.Justice Stephen Breyer, appointed by former President Bill Clinton, told Sopan Joshi, a Justice Department lawyer who presented arguments, that the case was filled with too much jargon."This seems like an area that, the more that I read about it, the less that we write about, the better," Breyer said. "It's based on very peripheral issues," Breyer told Goldstein.The chief controversy was whether the 2nd Circuit, in its ruling in favor of Goldman's shareholders, might have closed the door on companies being able to argue that their statements were generic in order to defeat class-action claims.The Justice Department, which argued in favor of neither party, filed a brief in February in which it said that the 2nd Circuit's decision was ambiguous on that point.The DOJ urged the justices to vacate the lower court's decision to clarify that a company could indeed argue that its statements were too generic to have an impact on its share price. On the other hand, the agency said that just because a statement is generic does not automatically mean it cannot affect share price."The parties largely seem to agree with each other and with us" on that point, Joshi said during arguments.Goldstein said that he agreed that the fact that a statement is generic shouldn't be excluded from consideration when a court weighs whether shareholders may bring a class action. But, he argued, the 2nd Circuit opinion did not say otherwise, and he urged the court not to reverse the appeals court's decision.In contrast, Goldman's attorney Kannon Shanmugam argued that the 2nd Circuit's opinion did refuse to consider the generic nature of Goldman's alleged misstatements. That was unfair, he argued, because general statements tend to have less of an impact on share prices."The more generic a statement, the less likely it is that it will contain the type of information that is incorporated into the price of the stock," Shanmugam said. "We think that in this case, the statements are exceedingly generic."Justice Elena Kagan, appointed by former President Barack Obama, suggested the court may do exactly what the Justice Department requested.She asked Goldstein, "Why shouldn't we just vacate and say, 'Here's what the law really is, we want to make sure you do it under the appropriate standard?'"Goldstein said that reversing the lower court's opinion would be "somewhat insulting" to the lower court and essentially would be "literary criticism." He said that the 2nd Circuit had been clear in a 2018 opinion in the same case."Both opinions are before you," Goldstein told Justice Brett Kavanaugh, a Trump appointee. Goldstein said that the court could clarify the 2nd Circuit's opinion while affirming it, rather than reversing it."We are left in this position where you've both moved more closely together, and now we have to decide what to do with the 2nd Circuit's opinion," Barrett said at one point.The top court's decision is expected by the end of June.The case is Goldman Sachs Group v. Arkansas Teacher Retirement System, No. 20-222.

2021/04/03, A pedestrian passes in front of a Charles Schwab Corp. bank branch in downtown Chicago, Illinois.Christopher Dilts | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesInvestors and strategists expect the economy to roar for the rest of the year. Goldman Sachs has identified the companies that are likely to benefit from the bounce back.

2021/05/04, A woman pushes a cart of groceries to her car outside an Albertson's store in Denver, Colorado.Matthew Staver | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe return of restaurants and rising food prices should put pressure on supermarket stocks in the months ahead, Goldman Sachs said in a note to clients on Tuesday.Analyst Kate McShane downgraded Kroger to sell from neutral and Albertsons to neutral from buy, saying the companies were likely to be pinched by weakening demand and higher costs.

2021/05/03, Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Source: NYSECorporate America is starting to ramp up its spending amid a rebounding economy after a big cash crunch last year, according to Goldman Sachs strategists, who believe shares of companies prioritizing growth will lead the next leg higher.Many major companies are opening up their wallets as much of the pandemic hit is now in the rearview mirror. For example, Apple, Intel and Walmart have all announced substantial new spending plans to facilitate future growth, Goldman noted. The Wall Street firm estimated a 19% rebound in S&P 500 companies' cash use this year, up from 10% growth previously forecast.

2021/04/06, Tesla's Model Y compact crossover vehicles at a showroom in Shanghai, China, on January 18, 2021.VCG | Visual China Group | Getty ImagesWall Street bank Goldman Sachs has named its top electric vehicle (EV) stocks as demand for this new type of auto booms.Analysts led by Sharmini Chetwode listed automaker Tesla along with five other buy-rated stocks relating to EVs that they said are likely to capitalize on the trend.Investors are flocking to EV-related stocks and last week Goldman estimated a 12-fold growth in battery demand in China alone over the next 15 years.Here are Goldman's top EV-related stocks:

2021/04/14, American flags in front of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. headquarters in New York, on Friday, March 5, 2021.Michael Nagle | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines in midday trading.Goldman Sachs — Shares of the New York bank popped 2.3% in midday trading after the company posted first-quarter per-share earnings of $18.60—crushing the $10.22 estimate of analysts surveyed by Refinitiv—and revenue of $17.7 billion, more than doubled what it posted one year ago. As of the latest reading, Goldman shares are on pace for their best day since January.Coinbase — On its first day of trading, Coinbase rose 31.3% to trade around $420 per share. Coinbase shares opened at $381 on the Nasdaq Wednesday morning, giving the cryptocurrency exchange an initial market cap of $99.6 billion on a fully-diluted basis.Bed Bath & Beyond – Shares of the big-box retailer tumbled 12.2% after the company reported a double-digit decline in fiscal fourth-quarter sales. Its earnings per share came in at 40 cents adjusted, versus 31 cents expected by Refinitiv. Ongoing store closures and divestments as part of a bigger turnaround plan continued to weigh on Bed Bath & Beyond's results.Wells Fargo — The bank stock jumped 5.6% on Wednesday after Wells Fargo reported better-than-expected first quarter results and the company's management expressed optimism about a pickup in commercial loans. The bank reported $1.05 in earnings per share and $18.06 billion in revenue. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv were looking for 70 cents per share and $17.5 billion in revenue.Moderna —Shares of the drug maker popped 6.9% after Moderna said its Covid-19 vaccine was more than 90% effective at protecting against the virus six months after a person's second shot. The data was based on more than 900 cases of the virus.JetBlue – The airline's share price advanced 0.3% following a bullish call from JPMorgan. The firm double upgraded the stock from an underweight rating to overweight, citing cost control measures and an attractive valuation. JPMorgan also raised its price target on the airline to $25 from $15. The new target is 20% above where shares closed on Tuesday.Harley-Davidson — Shares of the motorcycle company rose 1.1% but closed lower after Bank of America initiated coverage on the stock with a buy rating and said it sees "accelerating brand momentum." The firm said it is bullish about the prospect of "adventure touring" in Harley-Davidson's future.Snap – Snap gained 2% but closed lower after Wedbush assumed coverage on the company with an outperform rating. The firm said Snap has an innovative platform with a young audience, and pointed to opportunity in augmented reality and social commerce. Wedbush's 12-month target price of $75 suggests a 20% rally from Tuesday's closing price.Occidental Petroleum — Shares of the the hydrocarbon exploration company rallied 5.2% after MKM partners upgraded Occidental Petroleum to buy from neutral. The Wall Street firm said investors should take advantage of the pullback in shares.Discovery — Shares of the media company dropped 5% after CNBC reported that Credit Suisse is still unloading its position in the wake of Archegos Capital Management's chaos. According to people familiar with the matter, the bank was selling 19 million shares of Discovery's class A stock on Tuesday.JPMorgan – Shares of JPMorgan dipped 1.9% even after the bank reported profit and revenue that exceeded analysts' expectations on robust trading results. The strong result was also helped by a $5.2 billion benefit from releasing money it had previously set aside for loan losses that didn't develop. The bank posted first-quarter profit of $14.3 billion, or $4.50 a share including a $1.28 per share benefit from the reserve release, higher than the $3.10 per share expected by analysts surveyed by Refinitiv. The stock has risen more than 20% in 2021.Enjoyed this article?For exclusive stock picks, investment ideas and CNBC global livestreamSign up for CNBC ProStart your free trial now— with reporting from CNBC's Yun Li, Jesse Pound, Tom Franck and Pippa Stevens.

2021/03/28, In this articleGSPavlo Gonchar | LightRocket | Getty ImagesThe Supreme Court is set to hear arguments from Goldman Sachs in a long-running case that could have major implications for shareholders seeking to bring securities-fraud lawsuits.Arguments are scheduled to begin at 10 a.m. ET Monday and will be streamed live as the court continues to meet remotely as a precaution against Covid-19.The case, which dates to the Great Recession, concerns statements that the investment bank made while it was marketing "Abacus," an investment known as a synthetic collateralized debt obligation.Goldman advertised Abacus to its clients without disclosing that hedge fund manager John Paulson played a role in selecting its portfolio of subprime mortgages. Paulson's hedge fund, Paulson & Co., had placed enormous bets on Abacus' failure.After Abacus collapsed amid the housing crisis, Paulson made $1 billion and Goldman's customers lost about the same amount. Goldman ultimately paid $550 million to settle fraud charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2010 — the largest ever penalty faced by a Wall Street bank. In the settlement, the bank didn't admit or deny the allegations.The shareholders bringing the lawsuit, including the Arkansas Teacher Retirement System and a pension fund for plumbers and pipefitters, have said they lost as much as $13 billion when Goldman's stock tumbled following disclosures of the SEC's fraud investigation.CNBC PoliticsRead more of CNBC's politics coverage:Odds for a bipartisan infrastructure deal look bleakDeal on commission to investigate Jan. 6 Capitol invasion could come this week $100 million New Jersey deli: Ex-Trump tax lawyer owned shell company created by mystery investorsThe shareholders alleged that Goldman was lying when it made claims like "Integrity and honesty are at the heart of our business" and "Our clients' interests always come first" even while marketing Abacus and other CDOs that it had bet against.Those statements, the shareholders said, kept Goldman's stock artificially high.Goldman has argued that the statements the shareholders cited are too vague and generic to be the basis of a securities-fraud case. The bank has also argued that the statements didn't affect the stock price.While many securities-fraud cases stem from false comments that cause a share price to rise, the Goldman shareholders are arguing instead that Goldman's alleged manipulation was "inflation maintenance," or preventing the stock from falling. The Supreme Court has never recognized such an argument, though some lower courts have acknowledged it.The shareholders, who have been litigating since 2011, are seeking to bring the case as a class action on behalf of all the purchasers of Goldman stock between February 2007 and June 2010.A district court has twice said that the shareholders may do so, and the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals approved that decision in April.Goldman asked the Supreme Court to review the 2nd Circuit's decision, saying that allowing it to stand would be "devastating" for public companies. It has called the case the most important securities case to come before the Supreme Court since 2014, when the justices ruled in a case involving oil-field services giant Halliburton.Goldman attorney Kannon Shanmugam, a partner at the firm Paul, Weiss, wrote in court papers that a loss for the bank would mean that shareholders bringing securities-fraud suits in the future would be able to cite "boilerplate aspirational statements that nearly all companies make."In a friend-of-the-court brief, the Society for Corporate Governance wrote that the 2nd Circuit's opinion could have a chilling effect on companies seeking to make statements promoting diversity or opposing harassment in the workplace.The decision gives "companies a financial incentive to stay silent on important social issues, out of fear that even generalized or aspirational statements will become the basis for allegations of crippling securities-fraud liability," wrote Jeremy Marwell, an attorney for the group and a partner at the firm Vinson & Elkins.On the other side, financial transparency groups have argued that Goldman should be held accountable.Stephen Hall, legal director at Better Markets, which filed a brief in support of the shareholders, said Goldman's argument was "strained.""As we explain in the brief, even before the ABACUS deal, the bank's top executives knew full well that they were increasingly engaging in deals that presented stark conflicts of interest, and they also knew they had to do a better job of managing those conflicts," Hall said in a statement."Yet any such good intentions were completely abandoned — along with honest disclosures — as the bank aggressively sought to profit from the downward-spiraling mortgage market in 2007, at the huge expense of investors and ultimately shareholders," he added.Barbara Roper, director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America, said a win for Goldman "would let companies off the leash, ushering in a wide range of misleading behavior that could materially harm U.S. investors."The Department of Justice, under President Joe Biden, filed a brief in February that it said was in support of neither party.In the brief, the DOJ urged the justices to reverse the 2nd Circuit's opinion and order the appeals court to consider the case again while giving more consideration to Goldman's argument that its statements were too generic to have affected the share price.Shanmugam will represent Goldman in Monday's arguments. The shareholders will be represented by Tom Goldstein, a veteran Supreme Court lawyer who is known for publishing SCOTUSBlog. Sopan Joshi, a Justice Department lawyer, will represent the United States.A decision in the case is expected by the summer.The case is Goldman Sachs Group v. Arkansas Teacher Retirement System, No. 20-222.

2021/04/06, VIDEO6:4306:43Goldman Sachs and Robin Hood Foundation CEOs on new initiative to close racial wealth gapSquawk BoxGoldman Sachs, Starbucks and a range of other organizations across the U.S. announced Tuesday a collaborative effort aimed at narrowing the racial wealth gap between Black and white Americans.The initiative, called NinetyToZero, also includes the American Civil Liberties Union, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and the Robin Hood foundation as backers."A handful of folks got together and said, 'We have a coordinated problem that we have to deal with, and the only way we're going to deal with it is a coordinated solution'," Robin Hood CEO Wes Moore said on CNBC's "Squawk Box.""The problem we're trying to solve for was the fact that there is this 10-to-1 racial wealth gap that we have with the United States between Black families and white families," added Moore, who is set to step down from the New York City-based anti-poverty nonprofit next month.That 90% gap is where NinetyToZero's name is drawn from. The wealth disparity between Black and white Americans has grown throughout U.S. history as the result of exploitation, discrimination and segregation.Through the initiative, NinetyToZero partner organizations will set goals and track progress on a number of areas such as hiring Black employees, as well as spending and relationships with Black-owned businesses. It also includes factoring efforts around inclusion into "executive accountability," according to a press release.Goldman Sachs Chairman and CEO David Solomon, who appeared alongside Moore on "Squawk Box," stressed the need for organizations to be accountable."One of the reasons I signed onto this initiative with Wes and NinetyToZero is, I looked at the things we were doing through our various programs and I said, 'We're doing a lot of this, but this gives us another set of metrics, another set of goals where we can use our capital and our resources to try to make a difference,'" Solomon said.While Robin Hood is initially "incubating" NinetyToZero, it will eventually become independent of the nonprofit, the statement said."The ability to solve any challenge became more and more difficult — and frankly, impossible — if we do not deal with the fact that this racial wealth gap continues to impede any form or growth or progress," Moore said.NinetyToZero is the latest corporate action in the past year focused on addressing racial inequality in the U.S. Following the death of George Floyd in police custody last May, many companies announced financial investments in Black communities and organizations, as well as other internal efforts, such as reforming hiring practices.Solomon said shareholders and capital allocators have placed a greater emphasis on racial equality. "The reason for that is, I think people believe that diverse and inclusive organizations — and also progress on some of the issues that [Moore] is highlighting this morning — drives additional economic output, which brings everyone along."Companies need to understand the role they can play in driving that progress, Moore added. "Whether you're talking about historical factors like the ending of apartheid South Africa, whether you're talking about the hanging of the name of football teams, corporate weight matters in these conversations," he said.Other companies and organizations that have already joined NinetyToZero include Lord Abbett, Harvard University's T.H. Chan School of Public Health and McKinsey & Co.VIDEO9:4309:43Black experts: What's missing from the conversation around the racial wealth gapEarning

2021/04/14, VIDEO0:5800:58U.S. stock futures point to slightly higher open after Tuesday's mixed sessionMorning ReportHere are some of the companies making headlines in premarket trading:Goldman Sachs (GS) — Goldman shares rose more than 1% in premarket trading after the company's first-quarter results handily topped Wall Street's expectations. The bank earned $18.60 per share, compared to the $10.22 per share expected by analysts surveyed by Refinitiv. Revenue came in at $17.7 billion, which was ahead of the expected $12.6 billion. JPMorgan Chase (JPM) also beat top- and bottom-line estimates for the first quarter.Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) — Shares of the retailer tumbled 7% in the premarket after the company said net sales during the fourth quarter fell about 16%. During the period the company earned an adjusted 40 cents per share on $2.62 billion in revenue. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv were expecting 31 cents per share and revenue of $2.63 billion.JetBlue Airways (JBLU) — JetBlue stock rose 3% after JPMorgan upgraded the stock to "overweight" from "underweight." The firm expects the airline to continue to focus on cost controls in the wake of the pandemic, and noted that the current valuation is attractive. JPMorgan also upgraded Spirit Airlines (SAVE) to "overweight" from "underweight," while lifting its rating on Southwest (LUV) to "neutral."Moderna (MRNA) — Shares of Moderna jumped more than 3% in premarket action after the company said new data show its Covid vaccine is more than 90% effective six months after the second shot. The data was based on more than 900 cases of the virus.Occidental (OXY) — Shares of the energy company gained more than 2% in the premarket after MKM Partners upgraded the stock to a "buy" rating. "OXY has depreciated over 20% since early March (vs. XOP down 15%-20%) and reflects approximately 30% equity value upside, thus meriting an upgrade from Neutral to Buy," the firm said in a note to clients.Discovery (DISCA) — Class A shares of the media company slid more than 4% after CNBC reported that Credit Suisse is still unloading its position in the wake of Archegos Capital Management's blowup. According to people familiar with the matter, the bank was selling 19 million shares of Discovery's class A stock on Tuesday.Harley-Davidson (HOG) — Shares of the motorcycle company rose more than 2% in premarket trading after Bank of America initiated coverage on the stock with a "buy" rating. The firm said the company's new strategy is "elevating an iconic global brand."Snap (SNAP) — The social media company's stock was up more than 2% after Wedbush assumed coverage of the stock with an "outperform" rating. The firm said in a note that Snap is "uniquely positioned" as a video-centric platform, and sees opportunities around the company's augmented reality and social commerce divisions.Enjoyed this article?For exclusive stock picks, investment ideas and CNBC global livestreamSign up for CNBC ProStart your free trial now

2021/04/22, People are seen on Wall St. outside the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, March 19, 2021.Brendan McDermid | ReutersGoldman Sachs has an investor playbook for when the U.S. economy hits peak economic growth from the reopening later this quarter, advising clients to rotate from domestic plays into stocks more linked to a trailing global comeback.

2021/04/07, NOIDA, INDIA - APRIL 11: A woman holds a pot at a food distribution by Noida Authority  at Morna Village in Sector 35, on day eighteen of the 21 day lockdown to limit the coronavirus, on April 11, 2020 in Noida, India. (Photo by Virendra Singh Gosain/Hindustan Times via Getty Images)Hindustan Times | Hindustan Times | Getty ImagesA second wave of Covid-19 infections is expected to slow India's economic recovery in the three months between April to June, according to Goldman Sachs.The investment bank on Tuesday lowered India's growth forecast for the quarter from 33.4% year-on-year previously, to 31.3%. It cited lower consumption and services activity likely due to increased social restrictions that are being put in place by India's state and federal governments to tackle the new outbreak.Goldman said it expects gross domestic product (GDP) to contract sequentially by 12.2% quarter-on-quarter on an annualized basis for the three months ending June — which marks the first quarter of India's fiscal year that began on April 1 and ends on March 31, 2022. Last year, India slipped into a technical recession after registering two consecutive quarters of contraction."With virus cases surging to a new high of over 100K/day over the weekend, and a host of states including Maharashtra announcing stricter lockdown restrictions which are likely to broaden out in coming weeks, we expect Q2 GDP growth to be slower than we had initially anticipated," Goldman analysts wrote.Record high casesCases in India have been climbing since mid-February, with the state of Maharashtra — home to India's financial capital, Mumbai — getting hit particularly hard. On Monday, India reported more than 103,000 new cases over a 24-hour period, which surpassed levels seen in September when the first wave of infection reached its peak.On Tuesday, the South Asian nation reported 96,982 new cases, with a bulk of them in eight states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka.Authorities in Maharashtra stepped up restrictions, including introducing night curfews when only essential services will remain open, as worries mount over a potential shortage in hospital beds and doctors. Other states are also preemptively increasing restrictions to slow the virus' spread.VIDEO2:5102:51India's second wave of Covid-19 infections unlikely to have serious market impactStreet Signs AsiaOn the other hand, India has also stepped up its vaccination efforts. As of Tuesday, government data say the country has administered more than 84 million doses since rolling out its mass inoculation program in January.Some analysts and investors have said that the impact of the recent surge in cases will likely be limited if India can avoid a strict national lockdown like the one last year.Sharp rebound in subsequent quartersGoldman expects activity to rebound sharply from subsequent quarters — July-September and beyond — as India's containment policy normalizes and the vaccination pace speeds up. Still, the hit from the April-June quarter is likely to affect India's overall growth projection for the fiscal year, which Goldman now expects at 11.7%, down from an earlier forecast of 12.3%.That said, the investment bank cautioned that uncertainties around its estimates remain high, and the actual impact could be larger or smaller, depending on how stringent India's containment policies turn out to be, and if they spill over into sectors like construction and manufacturing.VIDEO8:5108:51How to fix rising income inequality during Covid-19CNBC ReportsImpact on GDP can potentially be cushioned by more targeted, localized restrictions in hot spots as opposed to a broad-based national lockdown, like the one India undertook last year, which had a significant socio-economic impact, according to Goldman."Measures have also been more targeted, and skewed towards services sectors such as leisure, recreation and transport, with little or no impact for agriculture, manufacturing, construction, and utilities," the analysts said, adding that the bank's analysis suggested that people have become more used to a post-Covid environment, with a shift towards e-commerce and working from home. As such, their response to containment policies by states is likely to be less sensitive.Goldman also expects the Reserve Bank of India to keep its policy rate on hold at 4% as well as maintain its accommodative stance and an environment with abundant liquidity for longer than expected.

2021/03/29, VIDEO1:0601:06Wall Street points to a lower open after Friday's late-day bounceMorning ReportTake a look at some of the biggest movers in the premarket:Discovery Communications (DISCA), Viacom (VIAC) – Both stocks remain on watch this morning, after significant declines last week. A source with direct knowledge of the situation told CNBC the sell-off was due to forced liquidation of positions held by Archegos Capital Management. Discovery gained 4.4% in premarket trading, while Viacom rose 2.5%.Goldman Sachs (GS), Credit Suisse (CS), Nomura (NMR) – Goldman told shareholders that any losses it faces from the unwinding of trades by Archegos Capital Management are likely to be immaterial, according to a person familiar with the matter who spoke to Bloomberg. Credit Suisse said it faced a possible "highly significant and material" hit to its first-quarter results, however, after an unspecified fund had "defaulted on margin calls" to it and other banks. Nomura said it faced a possible $2 billion loss. Goldman fell 3% in premarket trading, Credit Suisse tumbled 11.2% and Nomura plummeted 14.5%.Fly Leasing (FLY) – The Dublin-based aircraft leasing company agreed to be acquired by Carlyle Group (CG) affiliate Carlyle Aviation Partners for $17.05 per share, compared to Fly Leasing's Friday close of $13.25. Fly Leasing soared 26.6% in premarket action.Boeing (BA) – Southwest Airlines (LUV) announced 100 firm orders for Boeing's 737 Max jet, while taking an option on 155 more jets. Southwest had been considering alternatives to the 737 Max during the time the jet was grounded following two fatal crashes. Boeing rose 2.7% in the premarket.Cal-Maine Foods (CALM) – The nation's largest egg producer reported fiscal third-quarter profits of 28 cents per share, beating the 8 cents a share consensus estimate. Sales fell short of Wall Street forecasts. Cal-Maine said it benefited from strong demand for shell eggs, as consumers continued to eat more at home due to the pandemic. Cal-Maine gained 2.2% in premarket action.Tencent Music (TME) – The China-based music streaming service announced a $1 billion share buyback, its biggest ever, and its shares rose 7.2% in premarket trading.Twitter (TWTR) – Twitter shares gained 2.1% in the premarket after Truist upgraded the stock to "buy" from "hold," with the firm pointing to higher revenue growth estimates as well as what it refers to as "the most exciting product roadmap" it has ever seen from Twitter.Bilibili (BILI) – The China-based online video company made its debut in Hong Kong trading following its secondary listing, closing 1% below its listing price. Its U.S. shares jumped 3.6% in premarket action.Visa (V) – Visa said it would allow the use of USD Coin – a cryptocurrency pegged directly to the U.S. dollar – to settle transactions on its payments network.Amazon.com (AMZN) – JPMorgan Chase added the stock as a "top pick," saying the company was among those poised to deliver strong sustainable growth at a reasonable valuation.Premier Financial Bancorp (PFBI) – Ohio-based Peoples Bancorp (PEBO) will merge with West Virginia-based Premier in an all-stock deal valued at about $292 million. Peoples shares rose 2% in premarket trading, with Premier gaining 1.4%.CORRECTION: This article has been updated to correct the spelling of Archegos Capital Management.

2021/04/21, The Norwegian Cruise Line Norwegian Bliss cruise ship passes through Johns Hopkins Inlet in Glacier Bay, Alaska, July 11, 2019.Tim Rue | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe immediate future of the cruise industry remains unclear, but Goldman Sachs sees significant upside for one of the industry's major stocks.The investment firm upgraded Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings to buy from neutral on Tuesday night, saying that its business mix and balance sheet put it in a strong position relative to other major cruise players.

2021/03/25, Workers are seen at the production line of lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles (EV) at a factory in Huzhou, Zhejiang province, China.  ReutersTwo Chinese battery makers are set to surge as global demand for electric car batteries could multiply by roughly 30 times in the next 20 years, Goldman Sachs analysts said in a March 18 note.The firm updated its forecast for sales in Europe and the U.S. — the analysts now expect 47%, or nearly half, of all cars sold worldwide in 2040 will be electric, driving up demand for batteries.If sales end up surpassing that base case scenario, there could even be a shortage in batteries in 2025, the report said.Here are the numbers behind the more than 70% gains Goldman predicts for at least one Chinese battery company:

2021/03/31, VIDEO5:0905:09Goldman Sachs to offer bitcoin investments to wealthy clientsSquawk BoxGoldman Sachs is close to offering its first investment vehicles for bitcoin and other digital assets to clients of its private wealth management group, CNBC has learned exclusively.The bank aims to begin offering investments in the emerging asset class in the second quarter, according to Mary Rich, who was recently named global head of digital assets for Goldman's private wealth management division. Her promotion was scheduled to be announced Wednesday in an internal company memo seen by CNBC."We are working closely with teams across the firm to explore ways to offer thoughtful and appropriate access to the ecosystem for private wealth clients, and that is something we expect to offer in the near term," Rich said in an interview this week.Goldman is looking at ultimately offering a "full spectrum" of investments in bitcoin and digital assets, "whether that's through the physical bitcoin, derivatives or traditional investment vehicles," she said.The move means that soon, clients of two of the world's preeminent investment banks – Goldman and Morgan Stanley – will have access to a nascent asset class that has intrigued billionaires and digital currency believers alike. Earlier this month, Morgan Stanley told its financial advisors that they could place clients into bitcoin funds starting in April, CNBC was first to report.Mary Rich, named global head of Digital Assets for Goldman's private wealth management divisionSource: Goldman SachsIt is the latest sign of the staying power of blockchain-related assets including bitcoin, a new kind of money that emerged out of the wreckage of the 2008 financial crisis and whose exact origins are still unknown. Until now, big U.S. banks have mostly shunned bitcoin, deeming it too speculative and volatile for clients.But the industry capitulated after the latest boom in bitcoin's price. The surge has drawn in institutional investors, corporations and fintech players, and the infrastructure to hold digital assets is continuing to mature.In the end, it was client demand that won out, according to Rich. Goldman's private wealth management business mostly targets individuals, families and endowments with at least $25 million to invest."There's a contingent of clients who are looking to this asset as a hedge against inflation, and the macro backdrop over the past year has certainly played into that," Rich said. "There are also a large contingent of clients who feel like we're sitting at the dawn of a new Internet in some ways and are looking for ways to participate in this space."The bank may offer bitcoin investment funds, similar to those that Morgan Stanley will have, as well as other ways to invest that are "more akin to the underlying asset class which trades 24-7 globally," Rich said. Some cryptofunds, such as the Galaxy Bitcoin Fund, can only be sold or bought once per quarter, while Galaxy's institutional bitcoin fund can be liquidated on a weekly basis.Goldman is in the process of securing approvals from regulators including the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Department of Financial Services, according to people with knowledge of the matter."We're still in the very nascent stages of this ecosystem; no one knows exactly how it will evolve or what shape it will be," Rich said. "But I think it's fairly safe to expect it will be part of our future."Goldman's move happened despite skepticism throughout the traditional banking industry. That includes at the New York-based bank itself: Sharmin Mossavar-Rahmani, chief investment officer for Goldman's wealth management business, has repeatedly said that bitcoin isn't appropriate for investors.Until roughly a year ago, bitcoin's market capitalization and trading volumes weren't large enough for big financial institutions to bother getting involved, Mike Novogratz, CEO-founder of crypto firm Galaxy Digital, said Wednesday in a CNBC interview."Adoption's happening faster than I predicted," Novogratz said. "It's shocking to me how fast people are moving into the system."With reporting from CNBC's Jesse Pound

2021/04/18, A woman wearing a facemas exits a Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurant with her takeout order on January 14, 2021 in Monterey Park, California.Frederic J. Brown | AFP | Getty ImagesThe first week of earnings season has already delivered some big beats, and there could be more to come in the final two weeks of April, according to Goldman Sachs.The investment bank's derivatives research team said in a note to clients that options markets are pointing to upside moves broadly for stocks during earnings season, and there are still opportunities out there.

2021/04/28, A Bitcoin sign is seen at the entrance of a cryptocurrency exchange office on April 16, 2021 in Istanbul, Turkey.Chris McGrath | Getty ImagesThe recent deflation in bitcoin has reinforced concerns about the cryptocurrency's bid to become a long-term store of value, according to Goldman Sachs' top commodities strategist.Bitcoin climbed above $63,000 earlier this month, capping a dramatic rise starting in October that was fueled by increased adoption from financial firms and other companies, including Tesla. However, the cryptocurrency turned south and broke below $50,000 before regaining some of that ground in recent days.

2021/04/14, Michael Nagle/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesAs earnings season heats up, there are several underperforming stocks with an opportunity to catch up to the market and benefit options traders, according to Goldman Sachs.The firm's derivatives research team identified buy-rated stocks that have underperformed the market by at least 6% over the past month to identify potential "relief rally" candidates during the earnings period."The sharp rotations in equity markets this year have created significant opportunities for stock picking," Goldman said in a note. "While macro concerns such as interest rates, inflation and uncertainty related to COVID-19 cases and vaccines have weighed on many stocks, we believe earnings events can remind investors that fundamentals ultimately drive sustained stock performance," the bank said.

2021/04/14, A worker labels copper products at Truong Phu cable factory in northern Hai Duong province, outside Hanoi, Vietnam August 11, 2017.Kham | ReutersCopper prices are expected to rise, as the transition to green energy accelerates and the supply of the metal tightens, says Goldman Sachs.Based on an expected spike in demand, coupled with an already tight market in the wake of the pandemic, the firm raised its forecasts on copper. Goldman now sees prices average $11,000 per metric ton over the next 12 months. On Wednesday copper traded around $8,900 per ton, according to data from the London Metal Exchange."Copper is the new oil," Goldman said, adding that there's "no decarbonization without copper."

2021/03/10, In this articleGSThomas Barwick | Stone | Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs said Wednesday it will commit $10 billion over the next decade toward advancing racial equity and economic opportunity for Black women.The new initiative — called "One Million Black Women" — will focus on areas such as access to capital, job creation, financial health and workforce advancement. Goldman said the effort is "the largest announcement of its kind in size and scope." Goldman is partnering with Black women-led organizations to better understand the barriers Black women face.The bank will also invest $100 million in philanthropic capital over the next 10 years. The targeted funding will take the form of direct investing, as well as grants. The firm said initial investments are underway.The program's goal is to positively impact the lives of at least one million Black women by 2030, and its advisory council includes former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.Goldman's announcement comes as employees, shareholders and society call on corporate America to do more against systemic racism. A slew of companies have announced new diversity and inclusion measures, but it's still unclear whether these initiatives translate into real progress.In conjunction with its funding announcement, Goldman released a report called "Black Womenomics," seeking to quantify the gender and racial biases that Black women have faced and continue to face.Like countless studies before, the findings show racial inequality is not just a social issue, but an economic one as well.The research found that Black women are paid 35% less than white men. Reducing this gap could create between 1.2 million and 1.7 million jobs in the U.S. and increase GDP by as much as $450 billion annually.Progress in closing the wage gap has stalled. The wage gap between Black and white women stands at 15%, up from 5% in the early 1980s. Differences were attributed back then to education, occupations and industries. While these factors are still relevant, harder-to-measure barriers such as differences in career opportunities play a larger part."Largely because of lower earnings and limited access to capital, Black Americans are much less likely to own high-return assets than white individuals, including homes, stocks, and especially their own businesses," the report stated, finding that the median Black household owns almost 90% less wealth than the median white household.The coronavirus pandemic has exacerbated the challenges Black women face. February jobs data showed a 5.9% unemployment rate for women overall, while the figure for Black women stood at 8.9%.

2021/04/13, Jamie Dimon, chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., speaks during the Bloomberg Global Business Forum in New York, on Wednesday, Sept. 25, 2019.Tiffany Hagler-Geard | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesWhat a difference a year makes.A year ago, bank stocks were being pummeled for their perceived exposure to the coronavirus pandemic, pushing the 24-member KBW Bank Index down by as much as 50% from their start of 2020.This year, analysts have been busy revising the industry's earnings estimates upwards, thanks in part to expectations that banks will release some of the tens of billions of dollars in loan loss reserves set aside in 2020 and that reopening economies will drive spending and loan growth.   In fact, Barclays analyst Jason Goldberg boosted first quarter 2021 earnings estimates by a median 16% last week for banks in his coverage, driven by reserve releases and his forecast for strong investment banking and trading results. He now thinks per share earnings will jump by a median 80% compared to the first quarter of 2020, when banks were forced to set aside money for expected loan losses.

2021/03/16, Elon Musk, co-founder and chief executive officer of Tesla Motors.Yuriko Nakao | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMost analysts on Wall Street aren't telling clients to buy shares of electric car maker Tesla, homebuilder KB Home or hotel operator Hyatt.Goldman Sachs, however, loves them.The brokerage on Tuesday published its "out-of-consensus" stock picks, or those names that Goldman likes far more than the average Wall Street shop does.

2021/04/22, Beneficiaries waiting in observation area after getting COVID19 vaccine at M. A. Podar Hospital, Worli in Mumbai, India, on Monday, April 19, 2021.Anshuman Poyrekar | Hindustan Times | Getty ImagesIndia's second coronavirus wave shows no signs of abating — Goldman Sachs says investors are getting nervous about the macroeconomic risks and earnings recovery.The Nifty 50 is down almost 2.7% for the month as of Tuesday's close, and the Sensex fell about 3.6% for the same period.Goldman has downgraded India's economic growth projection for 2021 — from 10.9% to 10.5%. But the investment bank is still bullish on India and favors "targeted cyclical exposure," it said in a note on April 13. Cyclical stocks are those tied to the fluctuations of the economy, and tend to perform better during an economic expansion.Here are seven buy-rated stocks on Goldman's "conviction list." The bank says they offer an "attractive entry point" into the Indian market and expects them to outperform.

2021/03/29, Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Source: NYSEBolstered by a continued economic recovery, the S&P 500's return on equity is expected to rebound in 2021, despite three key risks facing the market, according to Goldman Sachs.

2021/03/01, A Goldman Sachs sign hangs on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs has restarted its cryptocurrency trading desk and will begin dealing bitcoin futures and non-deliverable forwards for clients from next week, a person familiar with the matter said. The team will sit within the U.S. bank's Global Markets division, the person said.The desk is part of Goldman's activities within the fast-growing digital assets sector, which also includes projects involving blockchain technology and central bank digital currencies, the person said.As part of this work, the bank is also exploring the potential for a bitcoin exchange traded fund and has issued a request for information to explore digital asset custody, the source said.The trading desk reboot comes amid growing interest by institutions in bitcoin, which has soared more than 470% over the past year. The largest cryptocurrency is seen by investors and some companies as a hedge against inflation as governments and central banks turn on the stimulus taps.While its price has risen significantly over the past year, bitcoin remains highly volatile. The virtual currency smashed through $58,000 on February 21 then fell back by as much as 25% but has recovered some lost ground.This makes the coin and related derivatives attractive for investors willing to take riskier long or short positions as they hunt for yield in a record-low interest rate environment.Non-deliverable forwards are a type of derivative that allows investors to take a view on bitcoin's future price.Goldman first set up a cryptocurrency desk in 2018, just as bitcoin's price was falling from record highs, muting investor interest in digital coins.Since then, market infrastructure for bitcoin and other large cryptocurrencies has significantly matured, with many established financial institutions offering products and services, including CME, Intercontinental Exchange and Fidelity.The developments have helped to attract more mainstream companies to the sector, ranging from those offering crypto services to retail or institutional investors, to companies opting to hold bitcoin on their balance sheetsLast month, electric car manufacturer Tesla said it had bought $1.5 billion worth of bitcoin, while Bank of New York Mellon said it had formed a new unit to help clients hold and transfer digital assets.

2021/04/23, President Joe Biden speaks in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday, April 21, 2021.Sarah Silbiger | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesInvestors are worried that President Joe Biden is about to hit them with the highest tax burden they've seen in more than a century, but Goldman Sachs thinks the end version likely will be something considerably less severe.Various media reports indicate the president will propose taxing capital gains at the top ordinary tax rate, which would be 43.4% when including the current 3.8% on net investment income tax. The increase would apply to those earning $1 million or more.

2021/03/01, People walk by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on the morning that the music streaming service Spotify begins trading shares at the NYSE on April 3, 2018 in New York City.Spencer Platt | Getty ImagesThe recent jump in interest rates and rising fears of inflation could hit one group of stocks particularly hard, according to Goldman Sachs.David Kostin, the firm's chief U.S. equity strategist, said in a weekend note that tech companies that weren't yet profitable seem to be bearing the brunt of the recent struggles for the stock market.

2021/04/22, The Lordstown Motors factory is where GM once operated, in Lordstown, Ohio, on October 16, 2020.Megan Jelinger | AFP | Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs downgraded a pair of early-stage electric vehicle companies on Thursday, citing concerns about what an increasingly competitive space will look like once those start-ups are ready to fully enter the market.The firm moved its rating on Fisker to sell from neutral and dropped Lordstown Motors to neutral from buy and slashed its price target for both even as it said it remains "very constructive" on the electric vehicle space overall.

2021/03/16, Goldman Sachs veteran trader Michael Daffey is seen in this undated handout photo, in London, Britain.Goldman Sachs via ReutersFormer high-ranking Goldman Sachs executive Michael Daffey bought a New York City mansion this month for a whopping $51 million from the estate of the late convicted sex criminal Jeffrey Epstein, his spokesman said Tuesday."Mr. Daffey had never previously been in the home nor ever met its owner, but he is a big believer in New York's future and will take the other side of all the people who say the city's best days may be in the past," said Stu Loeser, Daffey's spokesman.The sale of the 28,000-square-foot Manhattan townhouse generated income for Epstein's estate, jump-starting a fund set up to pay self-identified victims of the mysterious money manager who was accused of sexually abusing dozens of underage girls.The fund had halted compensation offers to victims' payouts before the purchase because the estate was low on cash. But the payments resumed on the heels of the sale of the seven-floor, 40-room Upper East Side residence last week.A residence belonging to Jeffrey Epstein at East 71st street is seen on the Upper East Side of Manhattan on July 8, 2019 in New YorkKevin Hagen | Getty ImagesDaffey paid for the mansion with cash and a bridge loan, Loeser said.Daffey retired from Goldman this month after 28 years with the firm. He had been chairman of the investment bank's global markets division.Business Insider first reported Daffey was the buyer of the property, which originally was listed with an $88 million asking price.On Monday, Epstein's former Palm Beach, Florida, mansion and property was sold by his estate for $18.5 million to the developer Todd Michael Glaser.About $10 million from the sale of the Manhattan mansion went to the Epstein Victims Compensation Fund, which as of last week had received more than 175 claims, and had paid out more than $65 million to eligible claimants, according to the fund's administrator, Jordy Feldman. People who have already registered their claims have until March 25 to file a request for compensation."I am pleased to report that the Program can now resume full operations after this unfortunate and unexpected month-long delay," Feldman said last week."I am eager to continue the important work of this Program, and remain deeply committed to ensuring that all eligible claimants receive the compensation and validation they deserve." Jeffrey Epstein in Cambridge, MA in 1984.Rick Friedman | Corbis News | Getty ImagesIn August 2019, Epstein, 66, died from what was ruled a suicide by hanging in the cell of a federal jail in Manhattan, where he had been held for more than a month after his arrest on child sex trafficking charges.A former friend of Presidents Bill Clinton and Donald Trump, of Britain's Prince Andrew and many other rich and powerful people, Epstein previously served 13 months in a Florida jail after pleading guilty to a prostitution charge.Epstein's former girlfriend and property manager, Ghislaine Maxwell, was arrested last summer on federal criminal charges which accuse her of recruiting and grooming several underage girls to be sexually abused by Epstein at the Upper East Side residence and other properties.VIDEO0:5800:58NBC archive footage shows Trump partying with Jeffrey Epstein in 1992News VideosThe British socialite Maxwell also is accused of perjuring herself in testimony taken as part of a lawsuit by an Epstein accuser.Maxwell, who has pleaded not guilty, is being held without bail in a federal jail in Brooklyn.Her trial is scheduled to begin this summer.

2021/04/21, Thana Prasongsin | Moment | Getty ImagesAnalysts at Goldman Sachs have recommended a wide range of stocks set to beat the market as it forecast strong global growth for the rest of the year.It produced several lists of global stocks, including those set to benefit from the reopening of economies post-pandemic, big dividend payers and those that are well-positioned to beat inflation. Goldman also named "inexpensive" and "cheap" stocks that its analysts think will be market-beating, in a research note published Friday.The firm forecast global growth of 6.7% in 2021 — higher than other banks — and several of the stocks on its "inexpensive" European list have a potential upside of more than 40%.Here are some of Goldman's best buys:

2021/03/01, Cars drive past a Walmart store in Washington, DC, on August 18, 2020.Nicholas Kamm | AFP | Getty ImagesWalmart has nabbed two veteran bankers from Goldman Sachs to help spearhead its new fintech start-up, as the company looks beyond retail to drive revenue.Omer Ismail, who leads Goldman's consumer bank, and David Stark, another Goldman banker, are leaving for the retailer. A Goldman Sachs spokesman confirmed their departures. The news was first reported by Bloomberg.Walmart announced in January that it is creating a new company to develop unique, affordable financial products for customers and employees. It has teamed up with Ribbit Capital, a venture capital firm, but will own a majority stake in the start-up. Walmart did not share the name of the company or when services would be available. Walmart executives, including CFO Brett Biggs and Walmart U.S. CEO John Furner, will be on the start-up's board.Walmart said it may acquire or partner with other fintech companies as part of the venture.The discounter declined to share details beyond what the company previously announced.VIDEO1:3601:36Walmart CEO: Government should provide additional stimulusSquawk AlleyWith the hires, Walmart is putting money and muscle behind its financial services ambitions. The company is also underscoring its strategy for the years ahead. At a recent investor day, CEO Doug McMillon said the world's largest retailer will use its size and scale to drive revenue in other areas, from opening health-care clinics to turning consumer data into targeted ads. He said Walmart will deepen customer loyalty with a growing ecosystem of products and its subscription service, Walmart+. It plans to step up investments to make that happen, boosting them to about $14 billion for this year versus the company's typical annual rate of $10 billion to $11 billion.Walmart already offers some financial services, such as a prepaid debit card that customers can load with money and use for purchases. The card is also an alternative for people who may have a challenged credit history, with features like no overdraft or monthly fees and no required minimum balance.The company's shares are up nearly 23% over the past year, bringing its market value to more than $374 billion.VIDEO10:3310:33Watch CNBC's full interview with Walmart CEO Doug McMillonSquawk Alley

2021/04/08, David Kostin, Goldman Sachs chief U.S. equity strategist, speaks during an interview with CNBC on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, July 11, 2018.Brendan McDermid | ReutersPresident Joe Biden's proposed tax increase would take a major bite out of the earnings numbers that investors are focusing on right now, according to Goldman Sachs' David Kostin.The firm's chief U.S. equity strategist said on "Squawk on the Street" that his clients are talking about corporate earnings in 2022, where there is a wide range of growth outcomes based on the path of corporate taxes.

2021/01/27, In this articleGSGoldman Sachs CEO David Michael Solomon attends a discussion on "Women Entrepreneurs Through Finance and Markets" at the World Bank on October 18, 2019 in Washington, DC.Olivier Douliery | AFP | Getty ImagesGoldman Sachs CEO David Solomon saw his pay slashed by just over a third for 2020 as part of a punishment for the bank's role in the 1MDB scandal.The bank, which saw its highest revenue in over a decade last year despite the coronavirus pandemic, has admitted to wrongdoing during its time working for a now infamous Malaysian government development fund called 1Malaysia Development Berhad, or 1MDB.The pay cut for Solomon, which at $10 million constitutes roughly 36% of his yearly salary, reflects prior penalties imposed on the bank and not Solomon's own conduct."While none of Messrs. Solomon, Waldron or Scherr was involved in or aware of the firm's participation in any illicit activity at the time the firm arranged the 1MDB bond transactions, the Board views the 1MDB matter as an institutional failure, inconsistent with the high expectations it has for the firm," a Goldman Sachs securities filing from Jan. 26 read. Solomon has been CEO of the bank since 2018.The compensation reductions also apply to John Waldron, Goldman's president and chief operating officer and Stephen Scherr, Goldman's finance head, who each received a pay cut of $7 million. The cuts are part of a broader effort by the bank to claw back $174 million in pay from former and current executives as part of its penalties.The moves are "part of the Board's broader determination regarding the compensation of certain past and current members of senior management in light of the findings of the government and regulatory investigations and the magnitude of the firm's settlement of government and regulatory matters relating to 1Malaysia Development Berhad ("1MDB")," the SEC filing wrote.  Solomon's pay package is comprised of $2 million in base salary, a $4.65 million cash bonus, and $10.85 million compensation in stock form, which is based on the bank's performance. His pay for 2020 was then $17.5 million instead of the $27.5 million he received in 2019, despite the fact that last year turned out to be a bumper year for the bank, hitting revenue of $44.56 billion, its highest since 2009. VIDEO3:1403:14Goldman Sachs will claw back executive bonuses after 1MDB scandal fines: SourceSquawk AlleyThe 1MBD scandal, which remains under investigation since 2015, was one of the biggest stains on Goldman Sachs' reputation at a time when the American bank was still dealing with its image problems over criminal allegations of bad asset sales during the 2008-09 financial crisis.Prosecutors accused the bank's senior executives at the time of overlooking fraud and bribery in pursuit of hundreds of millions of dollars in fees for bond sales to raise money for the fund while working for Malaysia's then-Prime Minister Najib Razak and 1MDB advisor Jho Low, who is accused of masterminding the fraud.The fund was pilfered by Najib to the tune of $700 million, cash that went into the prime minister's own private bank account, and proceeds from the bond sales were reportedly used to pay bribes to Malaysian and Middle Eastern officials. Goldman in October pleaded guilty to its role in the scandal and agreed to pay almost $3 billion to government authorities in four countries to end U.S. investigations.Two Goldman Sachs bankers have been criminally charged, while Najib was sentenced to 12 years in jail and fined 210 million Malaysian ringgits ($51 million). Jho Low remains at large and is believed to be living in China, despite an Interpol Red Notice put out for him by the Malaysian authorities. The scandal is reported to have cost Goldman Sachs more than $5 billion.

2021/03/15, Pedestrians walk passed signage at Cigna headquarters in Bloomfield, Connecticut.Michael Nagle | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe recent rotation away from growth has created one of the best stretches for value stocks in the past decade, but there are still cheap names out there for investors, according to Goldman Sachs.David Kostin, the firm's chief U.S. equity strategist, said in a note to clients that value's surge since vaccine data was released in November resembles the two biggest value moments since 2013 and has investors nervous about whether it was an overshoot."Based on our client conversations, most investors share our view that interest rates will continue rise. But many believe that the equity market rotations that have recently accompanied rising rates have gone too far," Kostin said.

2021/02/25, VIDEO2:2202:22Expect Hong Kong market to make further gains later this year: Goldman SachsSquawk Box AsiaHong Kong's tax hike on share trading was a "convenient catalyst" that helped spur a healthy correction for the city's markets, says Tim Moe from Goldman Sachs.The government announced in its budget on Wednesday that stamp duty on stock transfers will be raised to 0.13% from 0.1%.The move sparked a sharp sell-off in the broader markets on Wednesday, but stock prices bounced back partially on Thursday.The Hang Seng index rose 1.2% on Thursday, after falling about 3% a day earlier.Meanwhile, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing saw further losses and slipped 1.77% on Thursday, after the previous day's plunge of more than 8%. The HKEX operates the city's stock exchange and on Wednesday posted a more than 20% year-on-year surge in its 2020 profit attributable to shareholders."I think it's important to note that the overall increase, I mean yes it sounds like 30%'s a big number, but it's really 3 cents on every hundred dollars of trading — that's hardly gonna be the only or sufficient fundamental reason for people to make an investment decision," said Moe, co-head of Asia macro-research and chief Asia-Pacific equity strategist at the U.S. investment bank.Our view is that the increase in stamp duty was sort of a convenient catalyst for a market that had done very, very well.Timothy MoeChief Asia-Pacific Equity Strategist, Goldman Sachs"Our view is that the increase in stamp duty was sort of a convenient catalyst for a market that had done very, very well. It's probably a bit over its skis in terms of positioning, in valuation and we've had what you might call a healthy correction," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box Asia" on Thursday.Despite Wednesday's sharp losses, the Hang Seng index is still more than 9% higher for the year, as of its Wednesday close.In January, Moe told CNBC that mainland Chinese investors have contributed significantly to the "very strong start" of Hong Kong stocks in 2021.Looking ahead, the Goldman Sachs strategist said Hong Kong's markets will likely continue their upward trek once this period of selling subsides."What we would view things as is kind of a healthy cleaning out of some over-extended positioning, some of the heavily-owned favorite stocks sold off," Moe said. "We think once we get through this kind of positioning clear out, that the market … can continue to make some further upward gains later this year."Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2021/04/05, A construction worker walks past new homes under construction by developer KB Home in Valencia, California.Jonathan Alcorn | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesSmall cap stocks have stumbled in recent weeks, but there are still names with significant upside, according to Goldman Sachs.The Russell 2000 was the worst-performing major index last month, putting a halt to a strong stretch of outperformance. Goldman's small-cap strategists said in a note that the struggles could continue as the economic reopening plays out, but there were some names that still had support from fundamentals and valuations.

2021/02/19, A contractor carries building supplies for a house under construction in Lehi, Utah, U.S., on Wednesday, Dec. 16, 2020.George Frey | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe red-hot housing market shows no signs of slowing down in the years ahead, and several homebuilding stocks are set to benefit, according to Goldman Sachs.Residential real estate has been one of the strongest sectors of the U.S. economy during the Covid crisis, as lockdown periods increased demand for more space, and stimulus efforts bulked up savings accounts for many Americans.

2021/04/19, Executives of Etsy applaud as they open the Nasdaq MarketSite ahead of Etsy's initial public offering in New York, April 16, 2015.Michael Nagle | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAs stock picking gets harder, Goldman Sachs says some names that move on micro events and company news offer the best opportunity for investors willing to take risk.A stock market at all-time highs paired with falling volatility creates "a more challenging stock-picking environment," Goldman chief U.S. equity strategist David Kostin told clients.With key macro events such as the 2020 election and the $1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus package in the past, micro events like tax reform, infrastructure spending and pricing power should influence stock movement. The firm said names that also move on company-specific news could provide the best opportunity for stock pickers who can afford the risk.Goldman made a list of stocks that react to micro and company-specific news and assigned them a so-called dispersion score.

2021/01/07, In this articleGSInstacartAhead of its anticipated 2021 IPO, Instacart said Thursday it has named Goldman Sachs' lead internet banker as its next chief financial officer. Nick Giovanni, currently head of Goldman Sachs' technology, media and telecom group, will join Instacart on Jan. 27, succeeding Sagar Sanghvi, who has been the start-up's CFO for the last five years. Instacart has become one of the most valuable private companies in the U.S over the last year. A fundraising round in 2020 more than doubled its valuation from the beginning of the year to $17.7 billion. It's now one of the most anticipated initial public offerings of 2021, following high-profile tech unicorn IPOs for Airbnb and DoorDash in 2020. Goldman Sachs is reported to lead the IPO and could value the grocery delivery app at around $30 billion.Giovanni served as a lead advisor on some of the hottest tech deals over the last few years including IPOs for Airbnb and Doordash, Slack's direct listing and Dragoneer's SPAC. Giovanni has served as an advisor to Instacart since 2015 in his role at Goldman, leading several funding rounds and key transactions.He's the latest Goldman Sachs executive to depart the bank for a senior position at a client. Anthony Noto was a co-head of TMT investment banking at Goldman before he joined Twitter as CFO in 2014. Twitter promoted Noto to COO and hired his former Goldman colleague Ned Segal as the new CFO in 2017. Noto left Twitter early 2018 to become CEO of fintech start-up SoFi.Other tech companies have tapped Wall Street veterans as CFOs. Alphabet hired Ruth Porat in 2015, a former Morgan Stanley CFO. Jack Dorsey tapped Sarah Friar, a Goldman Sachs managing director, for CFO at Square before she left to become CEO at social media startup Nextdoor. And ahead of its recent IPO, Doordash hired Prabir Adarkar as CFO, a former vice president in Goldman's TMT investment banking group.Goldman Sachs partners Sam Britton and Matt Gibson will succeed Giovanni as co-heads of the bank's global TMT group.In an interview with CNBC, Instacart CEO Apoorva Mehta said he's excited to welcome Giovanni to the team. "The size and scale we are reaching requires us to have an excellent group of people around the table," he said.Instacart has seen demand for grocery delivery surge amid the coronavirus pandemic. "We saw five years of growth in five weeks," Mehta added. "Our business is still growing with transaction volume up 300% year over year in December."Instacart has been building a deep bench over the last few years, largely focused on the company's expansion into enterprise and advertising.Instacart's chief revenue officer, Seth Dallaire, joined in 2019 from Amazon, where he led the global ad sales business. Likewise, Instacart's chief technical officer, Mark Schaaf led mobile display ads engineering at Google and was CTO at Thumbtack before joining the company.Mehta said that the hiring spree will continue into 2021, as they expect to grow head count by 50% across the company over the next six months.

2021/03/08, In this articleGSUnemployment could fall this year to close to where it was prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a Goldman Sachs forecast that sees a hiring boom ahead.The firm projects an unemployment rate of 4.1% that could be even lower depending on just how powerful the recovery gets amid more fiscal stimulus and a return to work for sectors hit hardest by the coronavirus.Moreover, the forecast sees the economy returning to its pre-pandemic payroll level well ahead of the end of 2022, a view that Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen backed up Monday in an interview with MSNBC."The main reason that we expect a hiring boom this year is that reopening, fiscal stimulus, and pent-up savings should fuel very strong demand growth," Goldman economist Joseph Briggs said in a note. Though the forecast already is the lowest on Wall Street, there is still "some possibility of a return to the pre-pandemic rate in the mid-3s this year."In February 2020, just before the pandemic hit, the jobless rate stood at 3.5%, its lowest in more than 50 years. The rate ballooned to 14.8% in April 2020 amid business shutdowns aimed at curtailing the coronavirus spread, and now has fallen to 6.2% through February.Still, total employment remains down about 8.5 million from where it was a year ago.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsA return to work for displaced hospitality workers combined with another round of massive government spending is expected to keep driving that rate lower."Another key reason we expect a quick labor market recovery is that two-thirds of remaining pandemic job losses are in highly virus-sensitive sectors, where employment should rebound as the economy fully reopens," Briggs wrote. "The sharp increase in the virus-depressed leisure and hospitality category in the February employment report provided an early hint of things to come."Indeed, the sector added 355,000 jobs in February, accounting for nearly all the 379,000 nonfarm payroll jobs added during the month, according to a Labor Department report Friday.Moreover, there appears to be plenty of slack in the bar, restaurants and hotel space. The sector is still down nearly 3.5 million workers from where it was a year ago, and the unemployment rate there is still 13.5%, compared with 5.7% a year ago.In addition to a boost in hospitality hiring, Goldman says government payroll growth also should help bring the jobless rate down. Government jobs are down 1.65 million from a year ago, and the group was the biggest drag on the February jobs report as it lost 86,000 positions.VIDEO2:0502:05Covid has accelerated workforce sectors that women tend to lead: Global VenturesCapital ConnectionPart of the call also includes expected growth in the labor force participation rate, a key dynamic in measuring not only employment but also engagement.The rate has fallen to 61.4% from 63.3% a year ago as 4.2 million Americans have left the labor force. The decline has been especially precipitous among women, falling to 57% from 59.2% over the past year, and for Blacks, to 60.1% from 63.1%.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwards"Most workers who left the labor force still cite the pandemic as their reason and will likely reenter once life normalizes," Briggs said.Though Goldman has the strongest employment view on Wall Street, multiple other forecasters expect big gains through the year.Citigroup economist Andrew Hollenhorst noted that the 379,000 payroll gain in February actually was a bit lower than the 410,000 that the firm had expected. Hollenhorst noted that "there were clear signs that restaurants had begun resuming activity after slowing in late 2020 and that came through in today's report.""The continued rise in seated dining activity suggests that this will continue to be a source of support for jobs in coming months," he added.An employment index that the Conference Board compiles hit 101.01 in February, which is off about 7.8% from a year ago. Gad Levanon, head of the board's Labor Markets Institute, said the current trend is indicating an unemployment rate "well below 5%" by the end of 2021.

