2021/05/07, Apple and Epic Games have been facing off in one of the most closely watched antitrust trials in the technology industry in years.Epic Games presented its case this week, and Apple will present its case in the coming weeks. Eventually, Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers will make a decision whether Apple must allow Epic to install its own app store on iPhones and bypass Apple's 30% App Store fee.As part of Epic's argument that Apple's App Store is anti-competitive, the trial has revealed a lot of internal Apple deliberations on negotiations — court exhibits including email threads fill 60 binders worth of documents — with some of its most important partners.VIDEO5:1205:12What the Apple-Epic Games trial could mean for pending lawsuitsTechCheckThe documents paint a portrait of a company very aware of its highest-grossing and most important apps, that regularly engages in negotiations with companies including Netflix, Microsoft, Facebook and even Epic Games itself, whose Fortnite game was one of the top apps on Apple's App Store.While the emails don't show the App Store team compromising on Apple's rules about what's allowed on the store, they did offer other concessions, including front-page placement on the App Store, coordination and publicity through Apple product launches, access to exclusive programming features, and attempts to loop in senior executives to find compromises.Apple offered compromises to NetflixIn February 2018, an Apple manager met with employees at Netflix and subsequently wrote an email to his colleagues summarizing the meeting.He wrote that the video streamer was concerned about "voluntary churn," or the number of Netflix subscribers paying through Apple who decided to stop subscribing. Consequently, he said, Netflix wanted to run a test in a few small markets to see what would happen if it stopped accepting in-app purchases, of which Apple takes a 15% to 30% cut.The Apple manager wrote that Netflix's planned test raised questions for Apple, including whether to take "punitive measures," such as ceasing to promote Netflix on the App Store or escalating concerns to Netflix executives.The email kicked off a scramble among Apple managers. At the time, Netflix was among the top-grossing apps on Apple's App store.Pete Distad, an Apple VP focused on Apple's streaming business, dispatched employees to talk to his former employer, Hulu, on similar topics. One Apple employee said that Eddy Cue, Apple's online services chief, wanted to speak with Netflix CEO Reed Hastings.Over the next two months, Apple employees met with Netflix to talk about the test and updated their bosses about Netflix's plans as Apple tried to schedule an executive meeting, according to the emails.By July 2018 Apple employees had created a presentation about the Netflix issue. The slide deck included "pie in the sky ideas" which had not been approved, an Apple employee warned.The slide deck said that Apple had already offered Netflix "custom APIs," or non-public software to allow it to build systems to modify Apple subscriptions, handle free trials or extend auto-renew dates. It also would build features based directly on Netflix requests.It also pointed out the power of Apple's App Store content, which can drive downloads. It ran its own tests and found that when it promoted Netflix inside its App Store app, download conversions increased by 6% to 7% and said that Netflix got more App Store placements than any other partner, driving 330,000 downloads, or a 2% conversion rate. Apple does not charge for App Store "editorial" content placements.Finally, the slide deck suggested that Apple could deepen its partnership with Netflix, including using Netflix's commission that Apple collects to buy App Store search ads to drive downloads or bundling Netflix along with Apple services. Another possibility was to offer "video partner program benefits" to Netflix, which sounds similar to a deal Apple has with Amazon Prime Video that allows it to charge customers directly.Despite Apple's apparent efforts, Netflix discontinued new subscriptions through Apple in December 2018, allowing it to bypass Apple's cut on in-app purchases. The Netflix iPhone app currently opens up to the message: "You can't sign up for Netflix in the app. We know it's a hassle."Facebook and Apple had a history of conflictFacebook has had a long conflict with Apple over its desire to put social games in its apps, which conflicts with Apple rules over having collections of apps or software inside apps. Last year, Facebook ramped up its criticism and said that Apple uses its control over its platform to harm developers and consumers.In one 2011 email exchange posted in a document repository as part of the trial and subsequently removed, Apple executives including former CEO Steve Jobs discussed a compromise over games in the Facebook iPad app after former software chief Scott Forstall talked to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.The documents don't show the terms of the compromise. However, when the Facebook iPad app came out in 2011, it included web-based games such as Farmville — bending Apple's rule against app stores on its App Store. But iPhone and iPad users couldn't pay with Facebook's gaming currency, Credits.Internal Facebook deliberations published as part of the Epic Games trial show how that negotiation affected company relations in the years since then.In a 2017 email filed as part of court documents, a Facebook employee attached a short analysis ahead of a Facebook executive's meeting with Apple at Allen and Company's annual business conference in Sun Valley.By then, Facebook wanted clarification or guidance about how to develop "instant games" inside its Facebook Messenger app, which had been slowed by Apple's review process. But the 2011 compromise still loomed large."In late 2016 Apple approved Facebook to move forward with putting 'Instant Games' in Messenger and the FB Blue App," the Facebook employee wrote. "[Former Apple marketing chief] Phil Schiller pulled out an email from 2011 which memorialized an agreement we made allowing FB to stream HMTL5 games as long as we don't create an app store or do in-app payments."The outcome of the Sun Valley meeting is unclear from court documents, but by 2020 Facebook was fighting with Apple's review process again over a standalone gaming app. After one Apple rejection in March 2020, a Facebook employee described in emails frustration with the process and said that it "comes as a surprise given that FB Gaming includes no unique functionality that hasn't already been approved in the Games Tab inside the Facebook App."Facebook, according to the emails, was required to go through the same appeals process as every other developer, including appealing to an Apple body called the App Review Board. However, the social media giant was able to schedule calls with Trystan Kosmynka and Bill Havlicek, leaders of Apple's review group, and later, Ron Okamoto, who was the VP in charge of the group before he retired this year.When Facebook Gaming was eventually released in late 2020, it was clear that Facebook and Apple could not find a compromise."Unfortunately, we had to remove gameplay functionality entirely in order to get Apple's approval on the standalone Facebook Gaming app — meaning iOS users have an inferior experience to those using Android," Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's COO, said in a statement at the time.Microsoft was negotiating about Office for iPad in 2012An email thread from 2012 shows that top Apple executives, including Schiller and Cue, were informed of Microsoft's impending launch of Microsoft Office for iPhones and iPads.Okamoto, who at the time was an Apple VP focusing on developer relations, met with Microsoft. His email to his bosses says that Apple wanted to know if Microsoft could participate in its annual developer's conference, WWDC. (Microsoft declined, saying it wouldn't be ready to talk about its plans yet.)Microsoft had two requests. First, it wanted Apple to let it redirect users to the Microsoft website for in-app purchases. Microsoft would handle the payment, evading Apple's 30% charge for in-app purchases.Second, it wanted Schiller and Cue to meet with Microsoft counterparts, in particular, Kirk Koenigsbauer, who is a current Microsoft senior vice president.Schiller said yes to the meeting but poured cold water on Microsoft's payment proposal in an email. "We run the store, we collect the revenue."Microsoft did not end up releasing Office for the iPad until 2014, after Satya Nadella took over for Steve Ballmer as the company's CEO.Epic Games and MarshmelloBefore Apple removed Epic's shooter game Fortnite from the App Store, it was a top-grossing app on the store, and employees from both companies worked to seal cross-promotion deals, court filings reveal.Epic provided demos at Apple launch events highlighting new technology, quotes about Apple gaming features, and heads-up about its big events and promotions inside Fortnite.In exchange, Epic Games got promotion for Fortnite through the Apple App Store as well as through other Apple media properties such as Apple Music. It also used its relationship with Apple employees to get a Fortnite ripoff kicked off the App Store.One 2019 Epic Games email includes employees talking about a 2019 concert inside the Fortnite game featuring Marshmello, a DJ.Apple wanted to partner — but only after making sure Marshmello's mix wouldn't have curse words — the emails say, and included a proposal for cross-promotion with Apple's Apple Music brand, including billboards in New York and Los Angeles, digital advertising and posts from Apple's social media accounts.Apple needed permission to use the Fortnite name in its Apple Music playlists and ads, but Epic employees were waffling. One worried that Apple was "co-opting and drafting" in Epic's wake.Another employee pointed out the benefits to Epic Games, including that the company wanted Apple to sponsor future Fortnite events and that they saw big opportunity for the game's growth among iPhone players.Plus, "Apple commercials are always tasteful and cool," an Epic employee wrote. "They wouldn't do something sh---y with this."Apple seemed particularly interested in getting Epic Games to support ARKit, software for iPhones that uses its 3D-sensing hardware to integrate the real world and computer graphics.Epic emails from 2017 discussed a meeting with Apple to integrate the iPhone's face tracking to create animated characters.The partnership between the two companies extended through 2020. Shortly after Apple released a high-end iPad model with a new 3D scanner, an Apple employee offered Epic Games a meeting with Apple's ARKit team that made the software for it and later dangled the possibility of promotion at its annual developer conference.In 2018, after Fortnite had been released and had gained momentum, Epic Games co-founder Mark Rein replied to an email, asking, "[I]s there anything we can do so Apple could get behind us in a major way?"Rein said he had a February meeting with Apple already scheduled and that Apple was "VERY" interested in seeing the smartphone version of Fortnite.Apple had promoted Fortnite since 2015, when an early version of the game was demonstrated on-stage playing on a Mac at Apple's WWDC conference.However, the relationship between the two companies didn't mean that the negotiations ever got to the level of Apple CEO Tim Cook. In 2015, weeks after Epic Games presented at an Apple event, Epic Games CEO Tim Sweeney sent an email to Cook complaining about the App Store's rules, in a preview of Epic's arguments currently being hashed out in court.Cook asked his lieutenants: "Is this the guy that was at one of our rehearsals?"

2021/05/08, Jason Citron is the CEO of Discord, a chat app that has long been popular among gamers but is beginning to expand to other audiences.Courtesy of DiscordDelilah, a college student, has been watching "The Bachelor" since she was 12, but she's never known too many people in real life besides her mom who also watch the reality TV show. This is why when she discovered Discord, an online chat service, Delilah decided to create her own Discord server specifically for fans of "The Bachelor" and other dating shows. A year ago, Delilah usually watched rose ceremonies by herself. Now she watches each weekly episode with about six to 10 friends who use her Bachelor Nation Discord server to stream the latest episode together. Since launching in 2015, Discord has quickly become one of the top places for video game players to gather and communicate online, and it's growing fast. Discord counts more than 140 million monthly active users, up from 56 million at the end of 2019. The company also has 19 million weekly active "servers" -- communities that contain multiple chat, voice, and video channels. Discord offers some advanced features that make these servers more akin to online communities than simple chat rooms, including real-time audio and video conversations, custom emoji, and custom roles that distinguish users.Unlike most social consumer apps, Discord does not make money from ads. The start-up primarily makes money through Nitro, a service Discord sells for $9.99 a month or $99.99 a year that gives users additional features, such as animated emoji and high-resolution video.Although Discord is typically associated with online gamers, Delilah is among a growing number of folks who are creating and joining Discord communities that are focused on interests besides gaming. While Delilah's server is focused on a TV genre, other servers focus their interests based on regions, sports, memes, dating or investing. Among users, 70% say they use the app for gaming and other purposes, which was up from 30% in early 2020, according to a company spokesman. Delilah discovered Discord when one of her professors conduced remote classes there during the Covid pandemic. She used the app, thought it was cool and decided to learn more about it. "I started off with using it for school because of Covid and then from there I branched out and saw that you can use it for so many different things," said Delilah, who declined to give her full name so as to keep her online identity separate from her real world identity. Discord gained notoriety in the business world in March when the Wall Street Journal reported that Microsoft was interested in purchasing the San Francisco company for at least $10 billion. Talks with Microsoft reportedly have ended, but ultimately, the company announced a partnership with Sony, which took a minority stake in the start-up. VIDEO5:5805:58An inside look at the gamer chat app DiscordTechCustomization is the keySeveral Discord server admins told CNBC they noticed an uptick in their communities over the past year as folks were seeking to connect with others while stuck inside. One example is the San Francisco & Bay Area server. That server now counts more than 2,000 users, most of whom are people who identify themselves as living in the numerous cities surrounding the San Francisco Bay. The server has been around for about four years, and it was initially started as an offshoot of the r/SanFrancisco community on Reddit, said "Michael," a Bay Area software engineer and the admin and owner of the Discord server. But the Discord server grew over the past year as a way for folks to socialize virtually. "I've been thinking about this as just kind of a fun hobby to run, especially this year where there's just so much less to do," said Michael, who declined to provide his real name so as to keep his online identity separate. Michael estimates that he and his moderators spend approximately $80 a month to run the server. This includes advertising the server on Meetup.com as a way to recruit more members and paying for Discord's Nitro subscription service.A big chunk of the monthly cost also comes in the pool money the mods put up for their monthly trivia events, which is one way they bring the community together. "Something that I would usually spend in an entire month on going out and things like that, that covers an entire year's worth of expenses for the server," he said. The moderators of the San Francisco & Bay Area server also organize game nights, where they play games like Among Us or Catan, as well as movie nights, where they stream a movie and chat about it in the server's chat rooms. As more folks become vaccinated, some of the server's users have also begun to organize real-life meetups.One way the San Francisco & Bay Area server stands apart is by allowing users to assign roles to themselves. Users can choose to indicate what part of the bay they live in, distinguishing the color that their username appears in: teal for San Francisco, green for East Bay, and yellow for South Bay, to name a few. These unique features are a key reason many mods and admins decide to build their communities on Discord as opposed to other alternatives, like Reddit or Slack. That's the case for David "Tart" Rush and his fellow moderators who built the Fantasy Football Chat server. Like the San Francisco & Bay Area server, Rush's server was also a spinoff from a Reddit community. But Rush's server offers fantasy football players the ability to have conversations in real-time more easily than they could through comment threads on Reddit. "You really get that instantaneous feedback that you don't often get on Reddit," Rush said. "Somebody will type in a question and then you can actually start having a conversation a lot easier."The moderators of the Fantasy Football Chat server have built a number of bots that can recognize when the server's members talk about specific players and pull up relevant information, like a player's most recent stats or information about their NFL contract.These advanced features have helped Fantasy Football Chat attract more than 8,000 users since its creation in 2018, but all that growth has kept Rush and his fellow moderators busy. Besides building bots and recruiting fantasy experts to come do ask-me-anything sessions in the server, Rush and his peers also have to moderate the server to keep things civil. That includes filtering a number of specific words and discouraging their members from using voice and video channels, which Rush says are more difficult to moderate. More importantly, the moderators have instituted a zero-tolerance policy for politics because they "realized that every time somebody brings up politics it just quickly devolves.""Obviously we're going to have people debating this player and that player, and it can get heated," Rush said. "But as long as they're not digging into people and calling them names, we'll probably let it fly."With those guardrails in place, Fantasy Football Chat has become more than a hobby for Rush, the other moderators and many of the server's members. Although they discuss fantasy football as their primary topic, the server's side rooms allow them to build relationships beyond their common interest."In our server, you can really develop friendships a lot easier," he said. "Some people get to know each other really well in here, and you really do get that person connection. That's something I really enjoy."If Slack is a conference room, Discord is a barIn terms of functionality, Slack is the app most similar to Discord, with both functioning as closed areas where users can talk with one another via text, voice or video through various different chat rooms.However, Discord offers more customization tools for its users, and the fact that it is not positioned as an enterprise software gives the app an aura more akin to that of a bar or cocktail lounge than a conference room. That's the exact type of vibe that Hurl, a gamer in San Francisco, was going for when he built his server, aptly titled Smash Pub.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsHurl is an avid player of the fighting game "Super Smash Bros. Ultimate," a Nintendo title whose appeal spans various age groups. Hurl wanted to create his own server dedicated to the game, but he intentionally did not want younger players hanging around. So he gave the server a bar theme to attract older gamers who also enjoy having a beer while they play, while discouraging younger gamers who wouldn't relate."Smash is just full of a lot of different ages," Hurl said. "A lot of people tend to be like 'Can I please join your server, I won't be annoying,' and I'm just like 'Fine.'"Smash Pub includes unique artwork of the games' characters hanging out at a bar, and its numerous chatrooms have names that fit with the theme, such as the "general-cantina"; the Taproom side chat rooms where users can share memes, selfies, or just vent; and the Barcarde voice channels where users can hang out and play other video games. Hurl's approach to his server has quickly paid off. The server has grown to more than 2,100 members since he started it in August 2020. As more parts of the U.S. begin to open up again, more folks might return to the offline activities they were doing before the pandemic, but the admins of these Discord servers say they aren't worried about the impact that may have on their online communities. Although many of them saw growth during quarantine and lockdowns, several are confident that the communities they've built will continue to be hubs for socializing. That's the viewpoint that Michael of the San Francisco & Bay Area server is taking as he sees more of his members getting together in real life after meeting first on Discord."We're seeing this happen organically, and that's really cool. It seems that people are still interested in the community and the connections that are here," Michael said. "I'm optimistic that that's going to be maintained as things continue to open up."

2021/05/03, In this articleMSFTLuc(as) de Groot in Berlin.Sonja KnechtOn Thursday, Microsoft announced a change coming soon to some of its most visible software. It will choose a new default font for its Office applications, such as Word and Excel. And that means people will no longer be seeing so much of the font that's held the default spot since 2007 — a sans-serif font called Calibri.The change is another indication that this is not the old Microsoft. Since the measured Satya Nadella replaced the loud and proud Steve Ballmer as CEO in 2014, Microsoft has become easier for partners to work with, has strategically embraced third-party platforms instead of stubbornly ignoring them and has morphed into a formidable contender in the ever-expanding cloud computing business. Arguably a change to the look of Microsoft software is in order.But Lucas de Groot, known professionally as Luc(as) de Groot, the Dutch type designer behind Calibri, was caught by surprise."I had not expected it to kind of be replaced already," he said during a video interview from his home in Berlin.He said he did not expect to be consulted about the decision and that he's glad Microsoft invests in new fonts to make its software more valuable. He figured the choice to change was more about keeping up with contemporary style trends than about improving the legibility of Calibri.De Groot began working on Calibri in 2002. An intermediary had asked him to come up with a proposal for a monospace typeface for an unnamed client. He was not informed that the client had also sought proposals from other people. He was also asked to come up with a sans serif font, and so he sent off some sketches for Calibri in addition to the monospace work.The client turned out to be Microsoft, which accepted both of his proposals, and in 2003 de Groot traveled to Microsoft headquarters in Redmond, Washington, to meet with designers, advisors and members of the company's typography team.At the meeting, de Groot said, he argued that the company should include old-style figures — characters with varying heights — to help with reading, and Microsoft employees agreed.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsThe five new fonts Microsoft commissioned are available in Word for Office 365 subscribers. The first paragraph of text is shown in Calibri, and the second paragraph appears in the new Seaford font.Jordan Novet | CNBCComing up with the name was not easy. For both of his fonts, Microsoft wanted names that started with the letter C.As de Groot put it in an email, "I had proposed Clas, a Scandinavian first name and associated with 'class,' but then the Greek advisor said it meant 'to fart' in Greek. Then I proposed Curva or Curvae, which I still like, but then the Cyrillic advisor said it meant 'prostitute' in Russian, it is indeed used as a very common curse word." Microsoft legal workers also checked each possible name to see if it had already been trademarked.The company came up with the name "Calibri," and when de Groot first heard it, he found it odd. It was similar to Colibri, a genus of hummingbirds. But then Microsoft employees said that it related to calibrating the rasterizer in the company's ClearType font rendering system.Once he sent over Calibri, he didn't know how it would be used. At first he heard it would be included in a programming environment. It wasn't until a few years later that he learned it would become the default in Office, which has 1.2 billion users. By default, Calibri worked with lining figures with uniform characters, although users can enable old-style figures in Word.Calibri came to millions of PCs with the release of Office 2007, succeeding the staid 20th-century serif font Times New Roman. Soon, it was everywhere. It became a popular choice for resumes. It has been used to solve forgery cases, and in 2017 it figured in a Pakistani corruption probe ensnaring then-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Former President Donald Trump's son Donald Trump Jr. used Calibri to release an email exchange about a meeting with a Russian lawyer to gather information on Hillary Clinton, who had run for president against Trump in 2016.Over the years, de Groot has done additional work on Calibri. He came up with heavier weights, added support for Hebrew, and three years ago, he said, he submitted a prototype for a variable Calibri font, which includes several styles in a single font file, although Microsoft has not released it. He was working on Calibri updates as recently as two weeks ago.Then he started receiving emails from journalists about the news: Microsoft's design team had published a blog post on Thursday revealing five fonts it had commissioned, one of which will eventually replace Calibri. Calibri, they wrote, "has served us all well, but we believe it's time to evolve."De Groot couldn't help but have a look at the five fonts. He downloaded them to his PC and tested them out.He said he is fond of Seaford, a font developed by Tobias Frere-Jones, Nina Stössinger and Fred Shallcrass of the New York studio Frere-Jones Type. "It has a very strong design, and I would love to see this as the new default," he said. "It's not absolutely neutral, but I think it's a very nice design."WATCH: Microsoft Office 2016 'leapfrogging' Google: CMOVIDEO3:4503:45Microsoft Office 2016 'leapfrogging' Google: CMOSquawk Alley

2021/05/07, Morgan Stanley recently said that ESG will be the defining acronym of the next decade, likely to dominate financial markets during the 2020s.Alicia Llop | Getty ImagesThis week the S&P 500 ESG index underwent its annual rebalance and reconstitution, meaning there could be some shuffling in sustainability-focused funds that track the index.In a statement S&P Dow Joes Indices said the change includes adding Tesla to the ESG index, after the company was added to the benchmark index at the end of 2020.Ahead of the reshuffling, Bank of America looked at the stocks most commonly held in ESG funds.

2021/04/29, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, speaks with Herbert Diess, CEO of Volkswagen AG (not pictured), about a joint project between the two companies called the Volkswagen Automotive Cloud in Berlin on Feb. 27, 2019.Sean Gallup | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said Thursday that on Aug. 1 it will raise the percentage of revenue that developers receive from sales of video games through its app store from 70% to 88%.Microsoft wants to ensure video game developers don't abandon the store that comes with the Windows 10 operating system, as video game content represents a growing source of revenue that Microsoft would prefer to keep healthy, attracting both developers and end users to keep its own store thriving. Revenue from "Xbox content and services," which includes royalties from third-party game sales for PCs as well, grew 34% in the first quarter as people continued to play games while sheltering in place to reduce spread of the coronavirus. Microsoft does not report absolute revenue for the segment, just percentage growth.While Microsoft offers its own games such as Flight Simulator and Minecraft in its own store, the company wants to ensure that third-party developers continue to release their creations there, too. The update comes a week after Windows Central, citing unnamed sources, reported that Microsoft plans a revamp of its store app for Windows 10, along with more permissive policies."Having a clear, no-strings-attached revenue share means developers can bring more games to more players and find greater commercial success from doing so," Sarah Bond, the Microsoft corporate vice president in charge of game creator experience and ecosystem, wrote in a post on LinkedIn.The new revenue share will match the arrangement that privately held Epic Games employs in the store it has maintained since 2018. PC gamers spent more than $700 million on Epic store purchases in 2020, and Epic was valued at nearly $29 billion after a recent funding round, the company said earlier this month.Microsoft is also seeking to distinguish itself further from privately held Valve Software's Steam store, which since 2018 has offered 66% of revenue to developers, or 75% if developers earn over $10 million, or 80% for more than $50 million.The toll that big technology companies charge small software developers has become an issue across the tech industry, particularly as regulators look at the power of mobile app stores run by Apple and Google. At the start of this year Apple introduced a program designed to reduce the burden on smaller developers. Developers who received less than $1 million in 2020 for all their apps and developers who are new to Apple's App Store can qualify for the program, which takes 15% of revenue rather than the standard 30% cut.WATCH: Why the Apple vs. Epic Games battle is about more than just gamesVIDEO4:2904:29Why the Apple vs. Epic Games battle is about more than just gamesSquawk Alley

2021/04/27, In this articleMSFTVIDEO0:4700:47Microsoft reports beat on top and bottom lineClosing BellMicrosoft shares moved 3% lower in extended trading Tuesday after the software maker announced fiscal third-quarter earnings and quarterly revenue guidance that came in stronger than analysts had expected. The company's operating margin narrowed somewhat as cloud became a larger part of its business.Here's how the company did:Earnings: $1.95 per share, adjusted, vs. $1.78 per share as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.Revenue: $41.71 billion, vs. $41.03 billion as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.The software and hardware maker posted 19% annualized revenue growth for the quarter, which ended March 31, according to a statement. That's the biggest quarterly increase the company has posted since 2018, thanks in part to gains in PC sales resulting from coronavirus-driven shortages last year.The company said its Azure public cloud, which competes with market leader Amazon Web Services, grew 50%, faster than the 46% growth analysts had expected, according to a CNBC review of 14 equity research notes. In the prior quarter Azure revenue grew 50%. Microsoft does not disclose Azure revenue in dollars.With respect to guidance, Microsoft is expecting $43.6 billion to $44.5 billion in revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter, said Amy Hood, Microsoft's finance chief, on a conference call with analysts. At the middle of the range that would represent 16% growth, more than the $42.98 billion consensus estimate among analysts polled by Refinitiv.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsMicrosoft's Intelligent Cloud segment delivered $15.12 billion in revenue in the fiscal third quarter. That was up 23% year over year and above the FactSet consensus estimate of $14.92 billion. Intelligent Cloud contains Azure, Windows Server, SQL Server, Visual Studio, GitHub and Enterprise Services.The Productivity and Business Processes segment, containing Office, Dynamics and LinkedIn, contributed $13.55 billion in revenue, up 15% and more than the $13.49 billion FactSet consensus. The Teams chat and calling app reached 145 million daily active users, up from 115 million in October, while LinkedIn's advertising business reached $3 billion in revenue over the past 12 months, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said on the call. The company's More Personal Computing unit, which includes Windows, gaming, devices and search, came up with $13.04 billion in revenue. That was up almost 19% and higher than the $12.55 billion consensus. Technology research company Gartner estimated earlier this month that PC manufacturers shipped nearly 70 million units in the quarter, 32% more than in the year-ago quarter, the fastest growth since Gartner started tracking the PC market in 2000.That benefits Microsoft's sales of Windows licenses to PC makers, which were up 10%. There are now over 1.3 billion monthly active devices running the Windows 10 operating system, Nadella said.The outcome was greater than Microsoft itself had forecast. In January, Hood called for Windows license revenue from device makers to be up in the low single digits.The PC market endured "significant ongoing constraints in the supply chain," Hood said on Tuesday.At the same time, the gross margin for Microsoft's broad Commercial Cloud category of products — including Azure, commercial subscriptions to the Office 365 productivity bundle, cloud-based Dynamics 365 enterprise applications and commercial parts of LinkedIn — narrowed to 70% from 71%. The number is important to investors who want to see that Microsoft can continue to make Azure more profitable.The operating margin for the Intelligent Cloud segment that includes Azure also narrowed to 42.5% from about 44.5%. Microsoft's overall operating margin came in at 40.9%, down from 41.6%.Microsoft said in the quarter it had won a U.S. Army contract worth up to $21.9 billion over a decade for augmented reality headsets based on its latest HoloLens device. The company also issued patches to address vulnerabilities in its Exchange Server on-premises email and calendar software that Chinese hackers exploited. It also closed the $8.1 billion acquisition of video game maker ZeniMax Media.Notwithstanding the after-hours move, Microsoft shares are up 18% year to date, compared with a gain of around 12% for the S&P 500 over the same time period.WATCH: Is Microsoft too hard to beat?VIDEO7:2107:21Is Microsoft too hard to beat?Options Action

2021/04/28, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., attends the Viva Tech start-up and technology gathering at Parc des Expositions Porte de Versailles on May 24, 2018, in Paris. The third edition of VivaTechnology brings together nearly 1,800 start-ups alongside the largest international groups.Christophe Morin | IP3 | Getty ImagesSoftware giant Microsoft delivered a solid report for its fiscal third quarter, but the stock was down slightly in premarket trading as some Wall Street analysts said the growth was not dramatic enough to satisfy certain investors.Microsoft beat expectations on the top and bottom lines for the quarter, and several segments, including its Azure cloud business, grew faster than anticipated in FactSet surveys.Shares were down 2.3% in premarket trading Wednesday. Here's how Wall Street analysts reacted to the report.

2021/04/28, Microsoft chief executive officer Satya Nadella talks at a Microsoft news conference October 26, 2016. in New York.Don Emmert | AFP | Getty ImagesThe post-earnings decline in Microsoft's stock is a perfect buying opportunity, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.Shares of the tech giant were trading lower by more than 3% in late-morning trading as investors digested the company's fiscal third-quarter results. Quarterly revenue of $41.71 billion and adjusted earnings per share of $1.95 were both better than Wall Street expectations."This is ridiculous. That's the stock to buy this morning," Cramer said before the bell Wednesday on "Squawk Box.""There's just a knee-jerk decline," he said. "The decline tends to work all day because the brokers want to try to be able to get the sellers the best price."

2021/04/27, In this articleMSFTRecent data from LinkedIn shows the skills that are most in-demand as the labor market attempts to slowly regain its footing after the steep decline caused by Covid-19.Aytac Unal | Anadolu Agency | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said Tuesday LinkedIn's ads business has brought in more than $3 billion in revenue during the year ended March 31, outpacing pure-play digital ads competitors like Snap and Pinterest.The company does not regularly report revenue from LinkedIn's ads business — called LinkedIn Marketing Solutions — but it says growth is accelerating. On Microsoft's earnings call for its fiscal third quarter (ended March 31), Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said the unit's revenue was up over 60% year-over-year. Last quarter, the company said growth in the unit was 53%.By way of comparison, Snap has generated roughly $2.8 billion in revenue over the same time period, while Pinterest, which also reported quarterly earnings on Tuesday, has seen revenue of $1.9 billion.LinkedIn's ads business has offerings like sponsored content appearing in its feed, sponsored messages, and other ads that might drive LinkedIn users to register for an event or set up a demo. Clients included brands like American Express, Adobe and Chase as of last month, LinkedIn said in March. LinkedIn has tried to position itself as a better place for business-related ads than competitors like TikTok or Facebook's Instagram. In March, it launched a campaign to try to convince advertisers they can reach business professionals on LinkedIn when they're in a "ready-to-do-business mindset." It's part of a larger brand platform launched by LinkedIn Marketing Solutions in June that includes the motto: "Do business where business is done."LinkedIn also likely got a boost last year when a slew of advertisers paused their placements on Facebook starting in the summer and tried out other other channels.eMarketer forecasts that LinkedIn will command 1.4% of U.S. digital ad revenue share in 2021, just slightly up the 1.2% it held in 2019, but well shy of Facebook's 25.4%, Google's 28.7% and Amazon's 10.7%.Overall, though, LinkedIn's advertising business is still a tiny portion of Microsoft's total revenue, which was $41.7 billion in the quarter ended March 31 alone.VIDEO4:5004:50Why some workers are switching careers right nowPower Lunch

2021/04/29, In this article6758.T-JPMSFT7974.T-JPVIDEO1:3101:31Sony's PlayStation 5 launches in China before Microsoft's XboxSquawk Box AsiaGUANGZHOU, China — Sony officially launched its PlayStation 5 console in China on Thursday.The disc version of the PS5 will retail at 3,899 yuan ($602) while the digital only model is priced at 3,099 yuan.Sony's console will go on sale on May 15 in China with pre-orders beginning on April 29.Official releases of game consoles in China has only been possible since 2014, after a 14-year ban on those products was lifted. The ban has led to PC, and now mobile, being the dominant forms of gaming amongst Chinese consumers.Strict censorship laws and long approval processes also mean that console-makers have a tougher task of getting their products officially released in China. While the PS5 was launched globally in November 2020, it is only hitting the Chinese market months later.That has led to a vibrant so-called "grey market" — where sellers often import consoles from Hong Kong and Japan and sell them via Chinese e-commerce websites, often at a huge mark-up."Demand for PS5 has been high in China since it launched outside the country in November 2020," Daniel Ahmad, senior analyst at Niko Partners, said."Console gamers in China that could not wait had to pay almost double the RRP (recommended retail price) if they wanted to import a console from overseas," Ahmad said, adding this was due to shortages of the product and high demand driving prices higher.'Genshin Impact' among games releasedGames also need to go through Chinese censors. That means some games may not get a released in China if they upset the sensitivities of Beijing.Sony said the PS5 would launch with three games — "Sackboy," "Ratchet and Clank" and "Genshin Impact" — the latter is a hugely popular game from a Chinese developer. Another Chinese game maker called Ultizero Games is bringing its "Lost Soul Aside" title to the PS5.The PlayStation 5 will face competition from the Nintendo Switch in Mainland China, which has been the most successful console in the country to date.Daniel Ahmadsenior analyst, Niko PartnersMore games from Chinese developers would make their way onto the console eventually, as well as original Sony first-party titles too.Chinese PlayStation Plus subscribers will also be able to play 12 PS4 games as part of their subscription.Competition in ChinaSony is not the first foreign next-generation console to be released in China.Nintendo launched its Switch in 2019 working with Chinese technology giant Tencent to bring the console to the market.In January, Tencent said Nintendo had shipped 1 million Switch consoles in China."The PlayStation 5 will face competition from the Nintendo Switch in Mainland China, which has been the most successful console in the country to date. The hybrid nature of the Switch, social gaming features and high-quality software helped it succeed in China," Ahmad said.Consoles are still niche in China due to a number of barriers such as price, regulations and lack of games targeting Chinese players.Daniel Ahmadsenior analyst, Niko Partners"Sony also has a strong first party offering, and it has worked with domestic game developers such as Ultizero Games to bring unique titles such as Lost Soul Aside to the console and increase the console's appeal in China."Microsoft's Xbox Series X and Series S, which launched globally in November, have not yet been released in China. The Xbox received safety approvals for its hardware to be released in China at the end of last year. Microsoft has not said when it will launch the new generation of Xbox in China.Total domestic game revenue exceeded $40 billion in 2020, with the majority from mobile games, according to Niko Partners. Console game revenue is only around 2% of total games revenue in China."Consoles are still niche in China due to a number of barriers such as price, regulations and lack of games targeting Chinese players," Ahmad said."If Sony can address these challenges and appeal to the evolving demands of gamers in China then it can succeed, especially as disposable income for entertainment and gaming time increases in the country."

2021/04/27, In this articleVGOOGLMSFTSBUXAMDAMGNTXNPeople wear protective face masks outside Starbucks in midtown as the city moves into Phase 2 of re-opening following restrictions imposed to curb the coronavirus pandemic on June 23, 2020 in New York City.Noam Galai | Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines after the bell on Tuesday:Microsoft — Shares of the technology giant slipped 3.5% despite the company posting third-quarter results that topped analyst expectations. Microsoft posted earnings per share of $1.95 on revenue of $41.71 billion. Analysts polled by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of $1.78 on revenue of $41.03 billion.Alphabet — The technology titan's stock rose 4.8% after the company posted first-quarter results that topped analyst expectations. Google's parent company posted earnings per share of $26.29 on revenue of $55.31 billion. Analysts polled by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of $15.82 on revenue of $51.70 billion.Visa – Shares of the financial services giant ticked up 2.2% after the company reported better-than-expected results for its fiscal second quarter. Visa reported earnings per share of $1.38 on revenue of $5.73 billion. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of $1.27 on revenue of $5.55 billion.Starbucks — The coffee company's stock fell 1.5% after the company released mixed fiscal second-quarter results. Starbucks reported earnings per share of 62 cents on revenue of $6.67 billion. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv predicted earnings per share of 53 cents on revenue of $6.82 billion.Pinterest – Pinterest shares plunged 10.3% after the social company missed on user growth expectations for its first quarter. Pinterest reported 478 million monthly active users. Analysts surveyed by FactSet expected 480.5 million monthly active users.AMD — The semiconductor company's stock climbed 3.3% on the back of better-than-expected results for the first quarter. AMD logged earnings per share of 52 cents on revenue of $3.45 billion. Analysts polled by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of 44 cents on revenue of $3.21 billion.Mondelez International – Shares of the snack food company gained 3.9% on the back of first-quarter results that topped analyst expectations. Mondelez posted earnings per share of 77 cents on revenue of $7.24 billion. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv predicted earnings per share of 69 cents on revenue of $7.02 billion.

2021/04/20, In this articleMSFTPrasit photo | Getty ImagesIf you are among the workers who live in fear of the stacked blocks in your Microsoft Outlook calendar detailing back-to-back meetings, this new discovery won't surprise you, but we still need science to confirm what we all abundantly, anecdotally knew.Microsoft brain wave activity researchers took a look at our minds on back-to-back virtual meetings and they did not like what they saw going on in there among the gray matter.The research, published on Tuesday, confirmed that back-to-back virtual meetings are stressful. And the research is resulting in a sliver of mercy arriving on Tuesday for Outlook users. But, really just a sliver.Microsoft is adding a customizable Outlook feature to set shorter meetings as a default and require breaks before another meeting begins."Our research shows breaks are important, not just to make us less exhausted by the end of the day, but to actually improve our ability to focus and engage while in those meetings," said Michael Bohan, senior director of Microsoft's Human Factors Engineering group in a new report.The CNBC @Work Summit returnsThis fall, October 13, Facebook CIO Atish Banerjea, Bank of America Chief Operations and Technology Officer Cathy Bessant, WeWork CEO Sandeep Mathrani and Estee Lauder CFO Tracey Travis will talk building a resilient future and more. Register now.For the research, 14 individuals took part in video meetings while wearing electroencephalogram (EEG) equipment to measure brain activity, one day attending stretches of four half-hour meetings back-to-back, while on another day four half-hour meetings interspersed with 10-minute breaks. Lack of breaks resulted in spikes in the beta waves associated with stress building up near the transition periods between meetings, while breaks allowed brains to reset and better engage.Pictures of what the human brain actually looks like "on meeting" are in the full report.The effort by Microsoft to better understand how new work models are changing our wellness and productivity, and the links between the two, come as it is one of the major beneficiaries of the move to remote work and even more reliance on technology and the cloud to connect people through virtual platforms like its Teams. It is also among the more liberal corporate leaders on the future of work, announcing last October that its workers would be allowed up to 50% work-from-home without manager approval."Hybrid work is the future of work ... but that doesn't mean the transition to this future will come without its challenges," Jared Spataro, corporate vice president, stated in a blog post announcing the new Outlook features.'Digital overload is real'Multiple recent research projects at Microsoft have uncovered ways in which remote work is taking a toll on wellbeing, or as Spataro wrote: "Digital overload is real, and something has to change."Microsoft has been concerned about engagement as remote work extends beyond a year from the moment last March when the Covid pandemic upended traditional office culture. A recent survey of its workers found team engagement dipping in recent months and that led the tech giant to remind managers they need to be more attuned to fatigue factors in how they lead into the future.Not all companies are rushing to embrace remote work for the majority of their employees, either, and with half of the U.S. adult population now having received at last one vaccine shot, more workers will be heading back to offices and more employers setting their own limits on in-office versus remote. A Harvard remote work expert recently told CNBC the "vast majority" of companies will exist in a "hybrid state." But he is advising companies on striking a balance that works for the C-suite, teams and individual employees.VIDEO19:1119:11Microsoft on Future of Work Trends – Kathleen Hogan and Jared Spataro at CNBC @Work SummitAt WorkThe new Microsoft Outlook update targets both the individual and organization.Two options exist for those at companies using Outlook who are seeking a respite from meetings: Individuals can set their own meeting defaults at a shorter length. Also, enterprises can set shorter meeting defaults and create space for breaks for all employees — say a five-minute break ahead of all 30-minute meetings, or a 15-minute break after one-hour meetings. Individuals can override new company settings when their own meeting is being set up, but they will receive a notification about the organizational change.Of course, the change doesn't necessarily mean a worker in a culture where meetings are endless will see a brand new world of work created moving away from endless meetings."Even a sliver of time between these meetings can help," the company said in a statement announcing the new feature.Those 14 individuals who had wires hooked up to their brains aren't the only pioneers in this research effort. It is a mass experiment playing out across screens every day."The back-to-back meetings that have become the norm over the last 12 months just aren't sustainable," Spataro wrote. "Outlook and Microsoft Teams are used by millions of people around the world, and this small change can help customers develop new cultural norms and improve wellbeing for everyone.""Sliver.""Small."It's meeting culture mercy, not overhaul."10-min breaks between meetings create a reset which means you stay in a calm and relaxed state – even after four meetings," Microsoft noted in an announcement about the changes. "The transition from one meeting to the next is a high source of stress."Of course it is not Microsoft's job to tell other companies how to run their office cultures so it is reducing that back-to-back stress on the margins, but in the end, you'll still be sent back into more meetings, just with enough time to hydrate or consume enough calories to stay upright, or meditate for five minutes to clear the damage from the last meeting from your head."Essential breaks," the company said, for what may still be viewed within organizations as more essential meetings.

2021/04/20, In this articleMSFTScott Guthrie, executive vice president of cloud and enterprise at Microsoft Corp., speaks during the Microsoft Developers Build Conference in Seattle, Washington, U.S., on Monday, May 7, 2018.Grant Hindsley | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft plans to tell its customers more about the energy use of the data centers it uses to host Azure public cloud services. With that information, customers can figure out where to deploy their applications in the most efficient possible way.The practice dovetails with the plan Microsoft unveiled last year to remove more carbon than it emits by 2030. It could also help the company stand out to prospective customers in its bid to become larger in the growing cloud-computing market, where Amazon leads.Generally, companies that operate these large-scale computing facilities have been secretive about efficiency. Large technology companies spend billions building them each year, and efficiency when running them can be a competitive advantage.But this year, Microsoft began sharing info about power usage effectiveness for Azure data center "regions" -- groups of data centers located near each other -- to some customers under nondisclosure agreements, said Noelle Walsh, corporate vice president for the company's Cloud Operations and Innovation group."We will be increasingly transparent with some of those numbers," Walsh said. Itemizing data center by data center might be too granular, but working by region is fine, Walsh said.Walsh said the company won't share the information too openly, for fear that it might backfire."If everybody was to pick and choose, the overall optimum might not be the most green solution," Walsh said.In some parts of the world, such as Dublin and Seattle, it's possible to air cool data centers, while in warmer locations, keeping the computing infrastructure cool might require the use of chillers or other equipment, Walsh said."Our European customers are asking for a lot more insights into the details as to how we run our data centers," she said.She said hyperscale data centers are 98% more efficient than on-premises data centers that companies, governments and schools operate for themselves. Last year Microsoft introduced a Sustainability Calculator that customers can use to track the greenhouse gas emissions arising from their use of Azure.There are ways to lower emissions at existing data centers through technology. Microsoft has tested liquid cooling for servers, and the company plans to try using batteries as an alternative to diesel generators -- one source of emissions -- to deliver backup energy, Walsh said.The idea of learning more about efficiency across data regions is appealing to Francesco Tinto, chief information officer of Walgreens Boots Alliance, which uses Azure."Even in our network, we are making other partnerships with other vendors in a way that we can decrease our carbon footprint, usage and so on. So absolutely, it's top of mind for us," he said.WATCH: Microsoft, Nuance CEOs on $16B deal, cloud strategy, health-care AI solutions and moreVIDEO6:0706:07Microsoft, Nuance CEOs on $16B deal, cloud strategy, health-care AI solutions and moreSquawk on the Street

2021/04/28, A United Parcel Service worker delivers packages in New York City.Stephanie Keith | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2021/04/19, In this articleMSFTA customer plays on an Xbox xCloud device at the Microsoft store opening on July 11, 2019 in London, England.Peter Summers | Getty ImagesMicrosoft's Xbox Cloud Gaming service, previously known as xCloud, will begin rolling out in beta to iPhones, iPads and PCs this week. The service will be invite-only to start, Microsoft said in a blog post Monday.Xbox Cloud Gaming was on track to launch for iPhones and iPads earlier, but Apple updated its App Store rules in September that impacted services like Xbox Gaming and Google Stadia. Apple's move forced the companies to use web browsers to redesign their services so that they could circumvent the App Store rules. Under the rules, Microsoft, Google and other companies with similar services would have had to offer each game as an individual download instead of offering a complete library the way Netflix does for movies.Xbox Cloud Gaming is sort of like Netflix for games. People who subscribe to Microsoft's $14.99 per month Xbox Game Pass Ultimate plan can access more than 100 titles. The cloud gaming aspect lets you stream the games without having to download them, provided you have a fast enough internet connection. The streaming option is already available for Android phones.Microsoft said it will begin to roll out the service in 22 countries and will continue to invite new users to try it. Players just need a Bluetooth or USB controller for most games, though touch controls are available for some of them.VIDEO3:2603:26Video game streaming is surging as millions are cooped up inside their homesNews VideosSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/04/21, In this articleMSFTDiscord's new game store is currently live as a beta version.DiscordMessaging platform Discord has ended deal talks with Microsoft and plans to focus on expanding the business as a standalone company, sources familiar with the matter told Reuters on Tuesday.The company will focus on building the chat platform and making money from its user base that has grown quickly during the pandemic. A public listing is on the table but not imminent, the sources added.Microsoft and Discord did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Reuters had reported in March that Microsoft was in talks to buy Discord for more than $10 billion.Social networking has grown during the Covid-19 pandemic as people increasingly go online for activities from gaming to investment.Discord, which allows public and private groups to gather and chat by text, audio and video, has expanded from a gamers club to all types of communities, including sports fans, music groups and cryptocurrency investors.With over 140 million users, its business model stands out in the social network space where so many technology companies, such as Facebook and Twitter, rely on advertising for the bulk of the revenue.The San Francisco-based company's revenue grew to $130 million last year through its Nitro premium subscriptions, at $9.99 monthly or $99.99 annually, for features such as special emojis and enhanced video resolution.In December, Discord raised $100 million in a private funding round that valued it at $7 billion, counting Greenoaks Capital and Index Ventures as investors.Microsoft has been on an acquisition spree following its failed bid for TikTok last summer. This year, it has acquired gaming company Zenimax in a $7.5 billion acquisition and speech technology firm Nuance Communications for about $16 billion.

2021/04/12, CEO of Microsoft Satya Nadella gives a lecture about dream, struggle and creation at Tsinghua University on September 25, 2014 in Beijing, China. Nadella visited China for the first time on Thursday.Visual China Group | Getty ImagesTwenty years ago, the United States government filed suit against Microsoft for abusing its market power. Today, Microsoft is empire building because the country's regulatory focus is on its biggest rivals.Microsoft announced Monday it had acquired Nuance Communications for $16 billion ($19.7 billion including net debt). The deal gives Microsoft a company that specializes in voice transcription and related artificial intelligence software. Nuance has a particular niche in health care, providing software to digitize conversations from doctor's visits and facilitate clinical documentation.The acquisition comes about a month after Microsoft closed its $7.6 billion deal for ZeniMax, the parent company of video game publisher Bethesda. That transaction is meant to boost Microsoft's Xbox against growing video gaming competition. Microsoft has also been in talks to acquire Discord, a voice, text and video-chatting platform for games, for more than $10 billion. Those discussions have happened concurrently to the Nuance transaction discussions, which started in December, according to a person familiar with the matter.Microsoft's recent deal talks don't stop there. The company nearly acquired TikTok's U.S., Canadian, Australian and New Zealand operations last year in a deal that was being discussed in the $20 billion to $30 billion range. Microsoft has also recently approached Pinterest to gauge their interest in selling, according to a Financial Times report in February. Pinterest has a market capitalization of more than $51 billion.Less than three years ago, Microsoft paid $7.5 billion for GitHub. Less than five years ago, Microsoft paid more than $26 billion for LinkedIn.Spending tens of billions on acquisitions is starkly different from the strategies of the world's other technology super giants -- Apple, Amazon, Google and Facebook. It also just so happens that Congressional Democrats and government agencies including the DoJ and FTC have taken a close look at whether Apple, Amazon, Google and Facebook have abused their market power, and are considering separating their businesses or unraveling previous large acquisitions.Other than Microsoft, Amazon is the only member of the big five that has spent more than $5 billion on an acquisition in the last five years, buying grocery foods chain Whole Foods for more than $13 billion in 2017.Nuance is Microsoft's fourth such takeover.Not 'some aggregation play'Apple, Amazon, Google and Facebook, well aware they're under regulatory fire, are all proceeding cautiously with larger acquisitions, according to people familiar with the matter. A major purchase for any of them would almost certainly draw political attention, especially as their market capitalizations have ballooned during the pandemic. It's possible a big M&A transaction would become the catalyst for more draconian actions, such as a company breakup or forced divestitures.But Microsoft has avoided the same level of scrutiny. That eliminates bidding wars and makes Microsoft the current buyer of choice -- a role it likely wouldn't have played five years ago.This dynamic popped up during last year's TikTok discussions, when Google felt it couldn't lead a deal for the U.S. assets because of its regulatory positioning.CEO Satya Nadella alluded to why he thinks the government has treated Microsoft -- a company with a $1.9 trillion market valuation -- differently in an interview with CNBC."Our job is to provide technology so that [doctors and providers] can keep all of the data secure," Nadella said, speaking specifically about Nuance."This is not about some aggregation play. This is about pure platform providers. That makes Microsoft very distinct in how we approach most of what we do."In other words, Nadella is making the argument that Microsoft is agnostically providing technology while competitors are using consumer data in potentially harmful or monopolistic ways.Microsoft shareholders will ultimately have to decide how much empire building they're comfortable with. Nadella has turned the company around with his focus on enterprise technology. Nuance fits the focus. Other targets are further afield. But, as Wedbush analyst Dan Ives wrote in a note to clients, "clearly, Redmond is on the 'offensive' around M&A with the company in a clear position of strength."So far, Microsoft shareholders don't seem to have jitters about the Nuance deal -- Microsoft shares ended the day about flat. WATCH: Microsoft, Nuance CEOs on $16 billion deal, cloud strategy, health-care AI solutionsVIDEO6:0706:07Microsoft, Nuance CEOs on $16B deal, cloud strategy, health-care AI solutions and moreSquawk on the Street

2021/04/13, In this articleMSFTINTCAMDMicrosoft Surface Laptop 4MicrosoftMicrosoft unveiled on Tuesday the Surface Laptop 4, which competes most closely with Apple's MacBook Air. Customers can choose Intel or AMD processors across two sizes, a 13.5-inch laptop or a 15-inch model.It shows Microsoft is taking a different path to its devices than Apple, which has ditched using processors from Intel in its new computers in favor of its own chips. It also shows Intel is still struggling where it once dominated.Intel chips used to be the default processor in most notebook computers. But companies across the board continue to offer AMD options that can sometimes pack better performance for the price. Last year, Microsoft offered the choice only on its larger 15-inch laptops.The Surface Laptop 4 is similar to the Surface Laptop 3. But Microsoft is promising up to 19 hours of battery life — as opposed to 11.5 hours in the earlier model — and up to a 70% performance bump.The Surface Pro 4 includes Dolby Atmos support for improved sound and a new 32GB memory option. Microsoft opted for a 720p webcam, however, which is the same you'll find on a MacBook Air. It's not as crisp as what you might get from a stand-alone webcam or the camera on your smartphone. It also includes things not on available on Macbooks, like a full-size USB port and a touchscreen display.Microsoft wasn't clear on how consumers will know to pick the AMD or Intel models. However, the company said the AMD models will offer better gaming performance. Microsoft also said AMD models will be more appealing for people working with photo and video software given the boosted graphics. Part of that decision will be made for consumer depending on how much they want to spend. The entry-level model comes only with an AMD chip.The 13.5-inch Surface Laptop 4 ranges from $999 for the entry-level 13.5-inch model with an AMD Ryzen chip and 256GB of storage to $2,299 with an Intel Core i7 processor and 1TB of storage. The 15-inch model starts at $1,299 with an AMD Ryzen processor and costs up to $2,399 with an Intel Core i7 chip.The Surface Laptop 4 is available in the U.S., Canada and Japan and will start shipping Thursday. It will launch in other markets in coming weeks.VIDEO0:4400:44Worldwide PC shipments rose 32% in Q1, according to GartnerClosing BellSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/04/12, VIDEO6:0706:07Microsoft, Nuance CEOs on $16B deal, cloud strategy, health-care AI solutions and moreSquawk on the StreetMicrosoft announced Monday that it will buy speech recognition company Nuance Communications for $56 per share, about 23% above its closing price Friday. The deal is worth about $16 billion and about $19 billion including debt.It's the latest sign Microsoft is hunting for more growth through acquisitions. The company is also reportedly in talks to buy the chat app Discord for about $10 billion. On top of that, Microsoft made an effort to buy TikTok's U.S. business last year for about $30 billion before the deal was derailed.The Nuance acquisition represents Microsoft's largest acquisition since it bought LinkedIn for more than $26 billion in 2016. Last month, Microsoft completed its $7.6 billion acquisition of gaming company Zenimax.Shares of Nuance ended the trading day up 15.95% Monday. Microsoft shares were up slightly.Nuance would be aligned with the part of Microsoft's business that serves businesses and governments. Nuance derives revenue by selling tools for recognizing and transcribing speech in doctor office visits, customer-service calls and voicemails. In its announcement, Microsoft said Nuance's technology will be used to augment Microsoft's cloud products for health care, which were launched last year.In an interview on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" Monday, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella highlighted Nuance's health care tools as the key driver behind the acquisition."We've seen a massive accelearation of digital transformation… health care in particular," Nadella said. "When you think about the provider market… digital tech is going to be the key."Nuance reported $7 million in net income on about $346 million in revenue in the fourth quarter of 2020, with revenue declining 4% on an annualized basis. Nuance was founded in 1992, and had 7,100 employees as of September.Microsoft said Nuance CEO Mark Benjamin will remain at the company and report to Scott Guthrie,who is in charge of Microsoft's cloud and artificial intelligence businesses.Nuance has a strong reputation for its voice recognition technology, and it has been considered an acquisition target for companies like Apple, Microsoft and more for several years. Microsoft already has voice recognition built into many of its products, but it has recently shut down some products featuring its voice assistant Cortana.--CNBC's Alex Sherman and Jordan Novet contributed to this report.

2021/04/11, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks during the Future Decoded Tech Summit in Bengaluru, India, on Feb. 25, 2020.Samyukta Lakshmi | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is in advanced talks to acquire speech-recognition company Nuance Communications, a person familiar with the discussions told CNBC on Sunday. A transaction could be signed as early as Sunday and announced as soon as Monday, the person said.The plans illustrate Microsoft's recent efforts to expand through deals. Microsoft considered buying the U.S. operations of video-sharing app TikTok last year, and last month it completed the $7.5 billion acquisition of video game maker Zenimax.Nuance would be more aligned with the part of Microsoft's business that serves businesses and governments. Nuance derives revenue by selling tools for recognizing and transcribing speech in doctor's visits, customer-service calls and voicemails. The company reported $7 million in net income on about $346 million in revenue in the fourth quarter, with revenue declining 4% on an annualized basis. Nuance was founded in 1992, with 7,100 employees as of September.Microsoft first approached Nuance in December, the person said, and is willing to pay about $56 per share for Nuance, the person said. That would give Nuance an equity value of about $16 billion, representing a 23% premium over the stock's Friday closing price of $45.58 per share. Bloomberg reported on Microsoft's plans to buy Nuance earlier on Sunday. Microsoft declined to comment. A Nuance representative didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.At $16 billion, Nuance would be Microsoft's second largest acquisition, after the $27 billion purchase of LinkedIn in 2016.Buying Nuance could expand Microsoft's capabilities in voice software. Microsoft already has tools that developers can use to enable applications to transcribe speech into written words, and it incorporates speech recognition into its own products, such as the Bing search engine and the Teams communication app.WATCH: Stock market cage match: Traders pit Apple and Microsoft against one anotherVIDEO5:0605:06Stock market cage match: Traders pit Apple and Microsoft against one anotherTrading Nation

2021/04/23, An American Airlines Airbus A321-200 plane takes off from Los Angeles International airport (LAX) in Los Angeles, California.Mike Blake | ReutersHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2021/04/13, In this articleMSFTDado Ruvic | ReutersMicrosoft on Tuesday released patches for three versions of its Exchange Server email and calendar software that companies use in on-premises data centers, and the federal government has ordered all agencies to install them, warning that the vulnerabilities being patched "pose an unacceptable risk to the Federal enterprise and require an immediate and emergency action."The updates come a month after Microsoft took action to respond to attacks on other flaws in Exchange Server, which the company said had been exploited by Chinese hackers. But unlike last time, Microsoft said in a blog post it has not yet observed exploits of the newly discovered holes.Nonetheless, the widespread usage of Exchange, and the importance of email in general, has spurred the federal government to sound the alarm.In a Tuesday directive, the U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency noted that these vulnerabilities are "different from the ones disclosed and fixed in March 2021" and ordered all government agencies to deploy the patches before Friday. "Given the powerful privileges that Exchange manages by default and the amount of potentially sensitive information that is stored in Exchange servers operated and hosted by (or on behalf of) federal agencies, Exchange servers are a primary target for adversary activity," CISA wrote. "This determination is based on the likelihood of the vulnerabilities being weaponized, combined with the widespread use of the affected software across the Executive Branch and high potential for a compromise of integrity and confidentiality of agency information."The new patches apply to the 2013, 2016 and 2019 versions of Exchange Server.The company said organizations using the cloud-based Exchange Online service included in Microsoft 365 subscription bundles is already protected.Microsoft gave credit to the U.S. National Security Agency for reporting the new vulnerabilities.

2021/04/22, People walk in front of a Microsoft store on March 10, 2021, in New York.John Smith | VIEW press | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2021/04/08, In this articleAAPLMSFTVIDEO5:0605:06Stock market cage match: Traders pit Apple and Microsoft against one anotherTrading NationIt's a battle royal between the two largest S&P 500 stocks.In one corner of the ring, Microsoft keeps hitting records; in the other, Apple has not reached a new high since January.CNBC's "Trading Nation" asked two traders which is the better bet: the champion Microsoft or recent underdog Apple?"It depends on what you value more. Do you value … catch-up or do you value long-term growth?" Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global and chief market strategist at Lido Advisors, said Thursday.Apple's comeback from the pandemic lows has slowed since January. While up 100% from a 52-week low, it has fallen 10% from its Jan. 25 high. The shares are down nearly 2% this year even as the XLK tech ETF has gained 8%."Now if you look at just pure valuation, believe it or not, Microsoft is actually not trading at as high a premium as Apple is, so even though Apple is absolutely cheaper, Microsoft is actually cheaper relative to its own history," she said.Sanchez said Microsoft is trading around 20% above its long-term valuations, high but justified given her outlook for its sales growth trends.JC O'Hara, chief market technician at MKM Partners, said Microsoft looks to be the stronger contender here. However, that's not the name he's betting on."When you look at Apple and you look at Microsoft, they both trade with such a high degree of positive correlation between their price action. So what that makes me think here is that Apple could be the best trade to buy right now," O'Hara said during the same interview.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsJust as Microsoft last week began to break out to new highs, O'Hara predicts Apple will do likewise soon."If Apple starts to build momentum and break new highs, a lot more eyes are going to be watching this stock, so we're not buying leadership, we're buying a laggard, we're buying something that's slowly starting to improve," he said.Disclosure: Lido owns MSFT and AAPL. Sanchez holds MSFT.Disclaimer

2021/03/30, In this articleMSFTA Microsoft patch is shown on the shirt of an employee at the Nokia Oyj mobile handset factory in Komarom, Hungary.Akos Stiller | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is bringing more employees back to offices, but it is continuing to learn big lessons about keeping hybrid and remote work productivity up in the Covid era. That has been slipping.Recent surveying of 150,000+ Microsoft employees by the tech company's head of people analytics, Dawn Klinghoffer, and her team, picked up a significant decline in team sentiment about connections since the mass pandemic work from home experiment began. Microsoft saw employee reporting about feeling connected decline, though not in a straight line, from 91% in April 2020 — its baseline for this data point as it did not track it pre-Covid. Connectedness fell to 75% by November 2020; went back up to 79% in December 2020, and then began to plateau in February of this year."The shift to remote work was slowly eroding team connection," Klinghoffer notes in a report out Tuesday. "At the beginning of Covid, people were really focused on staying connected in new ways," she says. "But as time went on, those team connections grew harder to maintain."  What hasn't worked (hint: virtual happy hour)So what hasn't got the job done? According to Kathleen Hogan, chief people officer at Microsoft, one ineffective method was the attempt to lead with the recreation of team experiences in a virtual environment— from lunches to offsites, desk-side chats and happy hours. "Our data tell us that our employees need us to focus on the basics first, like work life balance and prioritization," Hogan, who spoke at the CNBC @Work Summit on Tuesday, relayed in an email to CNBC about the latest data ahead of her appearance. "Only then can a spectrum of formal and informal touch points like team moral events help strengthen team bonds."The CNBC @Work Summit returnsThis fall, October 13, Facebook CIO Atish Banerjea, Bank of America Chief Operations and Technology Officer Cathy Bessant, WeWork CEO Sandeep Mathrani and Estee Lauder CFO Tracey Travis will talk building a resilient future and more. Register now.Hogan didn't say the virtual cocktail hour doesn't have a place in virtual work. Some teams might enjoy it, while other teams thrive on virtual chat. "But the most important takeaway for me is that before those things can be effective, the fundamentals must be in place first," Hogan wrote.Microsoft managers who have made this distinction have the teams which have continued to thrive throughout the pandemic versus those experiencing collective fatigue. Managers who have taken on a greater role in helping individual employees prioritize tasks and manage work/life balance have kept team morale higher, the company's survey data indicates.At Microsoft, managers with this focus often have weekly "1:1s" during which they can help employees prioritize and overcome challenges. But it's not just the "scheduled time" that pays off, Hogan says. Microsoft teams have also started to set aside time at the beginning of meetings for check-ins. "When work gets busy, it's easy to focus on the work, but when managers take the time to show they care about the whole person, it boosts the entire team's connection and morale," she explained.Hybrid is the new permanent stateIf it seems intuitive that managers are important to teams, that's because it is."Managers have always mattered," says Hogan.In fact, Microsoft manger programs and best practices were in place before the pandemic, rather than being enacted due to the pandemic work data. But Microsoft's data suggests that manager support matters even more in a digital world.Microsoft is betting the permanent state for many companies will be as a hybrid work organization, and that means this emerging role of managers will be critical to understand, and support with training and resources.The 91% survey number in team connection which Microsoft tracked in April 2020 was a data point "we felt pretty good about," Hogan wrote to CNBC.Getting back to that level is the goal for the hybrid era."As we adjust to hybrid work, our job is to look for ways to bring those levels back up to where they used to be," she wrote.During her comments at the CNBC @Work Summit on Tuesday, Hogan added, "As we think about hybrid it is about empowering managers to empower employees."For a company with employees in 190 countries it is difficult to have one policy for all, especially in a world of work going through unprecedented changes. Decisions on hybrid and remote work are still evolving — Microsoft says for the majority of employees up to 50% of time working from home will be possible without manager approval. But other issues like relocation policy remain less clear and "ultimately, it is dialogue with manager and employee," she said at the CNBC event.One focal point for manager support to retake the highs in team morale: new employees.Onboarding 25,000 new employees during CovidMicrosoft added 25,000 employees during the pandemic and Klinghoffer's team found that at the 90-day point, managers were substantially more important than peers for new hires. The data showed that, compared to pre-pandemic Microsoft, new employees said reliance on managers for support during the onboarding process increased almost 20%, while reliance on peers for initial support declined 15%. This focus paid off quickly in new employee sentiment, with Microsoft new hires who said managers played an active role 3.5 times more likely to say they were satisfied with their onboarding experience, and 1.2 times more likely to feel like they were making important contributions to the team. The Microsoft findings echo other recent research on the importance of managers in the evolving study of remote work. A study conducted by Harvard Business School professors Raj Choudhury, Iavor Bojinov and Jacqueline Lane, looking at remote interns participating in a large corporation's flagship summer internship program, found that the interns who had randomized opportunities to interact synchronously and informally with senior managers were significantly more likely to receive an offer for full-time employment, achieved higher weekly performance ratings, and had more positive attitudes towards their remote internship.The findings on managers should not be taken to mean other relationships are less important, Hogan said.Especially for new employees, "onboarding buddies" — someone who has recently gone through the onboarding process themselves — should be a source of support. "They are great for questions like what an acronym means or how to find tools and resources at the company," she says. Peers, meanwhile, are key to gaining institutional knowledge, and an understanding of team culture and what is expected on the team."Each of these support areas are critical to a great onboarding experience," Hogan explained. "It just takes a bit more effort from managers to keep the team rowing in the right direction."VIDEO19:1119:11Microsoft on Future of Work Trends – Kathleen Hogan and Jared Spataro at CNBC @Work SummitAt Work

2021/03/31, Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAugmented Reality headsets by MicrosoftSource: Microsoft The U.S. Army said Wednesday that Microsoft has won a contract to build more than custom HoloLens augmented reality headsets. The contract for over 120,000 headsets could be worth up to $21.88 billion over 10 years, a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC.Microsoft shares moved higher after the announcement. The stock was up 1.7% to $235.77 per share at the end of Wednesday's trading session.VIDEO1:2701:27Microsoft strikes a deal with the U.S. Army for augmented reality headsetsNews VideosThe deal shows Microsoft can generate meaningful revenue from a futuristic product resulting from years of research, beyond core areas such as operating systems and productivity software.It follows a $480 million contract Microsoft received to give the Army prototypes of the Integrated Visual Augmented System, or IVAS, in 2018. The new deal will involve providing production versions.The standard-issue HoloLens, which costs $3,500, enables people to see holograms overlaid over their actual environments and interact using hand and voice gestures. An IVAS prototype that a CNBC reporter tried out in 2019 displayed a map and a compass and had thermal imaging to reveal people in the dark. The system could also show the aim for a weapon."The IVAS headset, based on HoloLens and augmented by Microsoft Azure cloud services, delivers a platform that will keep soldiers safer and make them more effective," Alex Kipman, a technical fellow at Microsoft and the person who introduced the HoloLens in 2015, wrote in a blog post. "The program delivers enhanced situational awareness, enabling information sharing and decision-making in a variety of scenarios."The headset enables soldiers to fight, rehearse and train in one system, the Army said in a statement. The contract, which was awarded on Friday, has a five-year base period, with a five-year option after that, an Army spokesperson told CNBC an email. The Pentagon did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The deal makes Microsoft a more prominent technology supplier to the U.S. military. In 2019, Microsoft secured a contract to provide cloud services to the Defense Department, beating out Amazon, the leader of the public-cloud market. Amazon has been challenging the contract, which could be worth up to $10 billion, in federal court.VIDEO2:5102:51Microsoft wins military contract that could be worth $22 billion over 10 yearsClosing BellSome Microsoft employees asked the company to hold off on submitting for the cloud contract, and similarly, a group of employees called on Microsoft to cancel the HoloLens contract. "We did not sign up to develop weapons, and we demand a say in how our work is used," the employees wrote in an open letter regarding the HoloLens contract.Days later, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella defended the Army augmented reality project, telling CNN that "we made a principled decision that we're not going to withhold technology from institutions that we have elected in democracies to protect the freedoms we enjoy." The Army, meanwhile, has suggested the augmented reality technology could help soldiers target enemies and prevent the killing of civilians.-- CNBC's Amanda Macias contributed to this report.

2021/04/12, In this articleGOOGLThomas Kurian, chief executive officer of cloud services at Google LLC, speaks during the Google Cloud Next '19 event in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Tuesday, April 9, 2019. The conference brings together industry experts to discuss the future of cloud computing.Michael Short | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesGoogle maintains a piece of software, Cloudtop, that employees use to access internal programs. It's the sort of thing that might be helpful for companies that want to keep their employees productive as they work from home while sheltering in place to avoid further spread of the coronavirus.However, when Google's cloud customers ask for a virtual desktop solution, Google refers them to third-party solutions instead, according to two people familiar with the company's cloud business, who asked for anonymity as they were discussing internal business matters.Google's approach stands in sharp contrast to market leaders Amazon and Microsoft. Both have their own virtual desktop services, and both have seen an uptick in usage during the pandemic. For many companies navigating remote work at scale for the first time, relying on cloud providers to deal with infrastructure is easier than keeping administrators on site to manage servers — or mailing PCs to new employees.For instance, after Zoom saw a surge in new customers during the pandemic, the video-calling software company signed up for more than 1,000 Amazon WorkSpaces virtual desktops for its help desk employees, Amazon said in November. In May, AWS said oil and gas pipeline operator TC Energy had signed up for Amazon WorkSpaces so employees could securely work from home.For Microsoft, the boom was important enough that CEO Satya Nadella mentioned it on the company's quarterly earnings call with analysts last April. "Usage of Windows Virtual Desktop tripled this quarter, as organizations deploy virtual desktops and apps on Azure to enable secure remote work," Nadella said.No plans to make Cloudtop available to customersGoogle first made its Cloudtop service available to employees in 2017. It's meant to help them build software, interact with internal systems and communicate through internet relay chat, or IRC. The service offers desktops running the Linux and Windows operating systems, which can come in handy for testing source code.In previous years, Google has impressed the information technology industry by making software that it relies on for its core internet businesses available for outsiders to use. It released the Cloud Bigtable and Cloud Spanner databases after describing the architecture of the underlying software in academic papers, for instance.Google published a paper on its virtual desktop software in 2018. Over 25% of Google employees use virtual desktops, and Google migrated the software to its public cloud from its corporate infrastructure to improve the user experience and decrease the total cost of ownership, according to the paper.But that hasn't translated into a product for outsiders.A Google spokesperson said the company recognizes the increased demand for virtual desktops as people work remotely, but it does not currently plan to offer Cloudtop as a cloud service. Instead, the company prioritizes its offerings from third parties in the virtual desktop market — Telus uses a product from privately held Itopia on Google's cloud, while Equifax relies on Citrix software on the Google cloud, for instance. Other customers use a product from privately held Workspot.Promoting products from partners gives clients the ability to extend technologies they use in their data centers into the public cloud, and customers won't get locked in to a proprietary service, the spokesperson said.These products have gained momentum since the coronavirus appeared. In 2020 revenue growth from Citrix's Workspace segment, which includes its virtual desktop software, accelerated to about 13% year over year, compared with 5% in the prior year. It's profitable revenue, too: Citrix reported a gross margin of nearly 85%, higher than 97% of companies in the S&P 500 index, according to FactSet.That growth does benefit Google to some degree: The company takes a 20% cut of the fees that third parties charge customers.But none of the third-party options is a smash hit, according to the two people familiar with the company's cloud business."It was a little bit surprising that Google wasn't more present in that market," said Michael Silver, an analyst at technology research firm Gartner who has covered the category. "I don't know why it wasn't."WATCH: Google Cloud's Thomas Kurian on the future of cloud computingVIDEO3:2903:29Google Cloud's Thomas Kurian on the future of cloud computingSquawk Alley

2021/04/16, People watch as the logo for Coinbase Global Inc, the biggest U.S. cryptocurrency exchange, is displayed on the Nasdaq MarketSite jumbotron at Times Square in New York, U.S., April 14, 2021.Shannon Stapleton | ReutersHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2021/04/02, Game enthusiasts and industry personnel walk between the Microsoft Xbox and Sony PlayStation exhibits at the E3 trade show on June 16, 2015 in Los Angeles, California.Christian Petersen | Getty ImagesWith some 18 million monthly subscribers to its Game Pass service, Microsoft is on its way to becoming the "Netflix of gaming," according to Morgan Stanley.

2021/04/05, Facebook's CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks during the F8 Facebook Developers conference on April 30, 2019 in San Jose, California.Justin Sullivan | Getty ImagesShares of Facebook, Alphabet and Microsoft each hit all-time highs Monday as investors rotated away from cyclical stocks and poured back into growth.Facebook surged as much as 4%, closing up 3.4%. Alphabet closed up 4.2%, having gained as much as 4.6%, while Microsoft closed up 2.8%. It had jumped as much as 3.1%.The gains came amid broader market sentiment, boosted by strong U.S. job growth last month. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite gained 1.7%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 373.06 points to an all-time high.The tech companies' peers also were boosted early Monday. Shares of Apple were up as much as 2.6%, while Amazon was up 2.4%.Tesla, meanwhile, continued to pop on production and delivery figures that broadly beat expectations. The company's stock was up as much as 7%.Alphabet was also likely boosted after the Supreme Court sided with Google against Oracle in a long-running copyright dispute over the software used in Android. Morgan Stanley also wrote in a Monday note that its analyst, Brian Nowak, said the Google parent company was "a favored pick at ~13x '22 EBITDA with several upside drivers — dark horse travel trade, surging YouTube trends, continued Google Cloud Platform top-line traction, and potential margin upside with opex discipline."Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO5:4005:40Loup Venture's Gene Munster on Tesla crushing first-quarter delivery estimatesSquawk Box

2021/04/01, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during the company's annual shareholders meeting in Bellevue, Washington, on Nov. 29, 2017.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said on Thursday it was investigating an issue with its Microsoft 365 services and features, including workplace messaging app Teams and Azure, after many users were unable to access them.Outage tracking website Downdetector showed over 8,000 incidents of people reporting issues with Teams, an app heavily relied on by people for remote work during the Covid-19 pandemic."We're investigating an issue in which users may be unable to access Microsoft 365 services and features. We'll provide additional information as soon as possible," said Microsoft in a tweet.Downdetector only tracks outages by collating status reports from a series of sources, including user-submitted errors on its platform. The outage might be affecting a larger number of users.

2021/03/23, VIDEO5:3505:35New York Times' Kevin Roose on Microsoft eying Discord for $10 billion dealSquawk AlleyDiscord, the chatting app that's popular with video gamers, is reportedly for sale for about $10 billion. According to Bloomberg, Microsoft is one of the interested acquirers. Shares of Microsoft were up more than 1% Tuesday morning following the reports.So, why would Microsoft (or anyone else) spend billions for Discord?Microsoft has billions to spend on a social media company. Last year, Microsoft was in the running to buy TikTok's U.S. business for as much as $30 billion after the Trump administration attempted to force a sale over security concerns with the Chinese-owned company. Microsoft eventually backed out of the deal, and Oracle and Walmart entered into a joint bid to take control of TikTok's U.S. business. (That deal is currently in limbo now that the Biden administration is running the show.) It's now clear that Microsoft is still hungry for a social media company after the TikTok deal fell through.An employee works at Discord in San Francisco.CNBC | Andrew EversHere's what you need to know:Discord has a massive user base. According to various reports, Discord has about 140 million active users per month. That's approaching the size of Twitter's 192 million monthly users. The company makes money by selling subscriptions to a premium service that lets you customize your profile and upload high-resolution images and videos for $9.99 per month or $99.99 per year.Discord has raised about $479 million in funding so far, according to CrunchBase. The company was last privately valued at $7 billion, according to TechCrunch.Discord is popular with gamers, which is a natural fit for Microsoft's Xbox business. Discord's core user base is made up of video game players who turn to the app to chat about games they're playing, either in real-time or in message board postings.That would tie in nicely with Microsoft's Xbox business, which is shifting to a future beyond just video game consoles. Microsoft is also building an online gaming service that will let you stream Xbox games to just about any device with an internet connection, which could one day make pricey gaming hardware unnecessary. (Think of it as Netflix for video games.)Beyond gaming, many Discord users create chat rooms for other topics like day trading, investing or just socializing with friends. It's a popular destination for people who want to hold private group chats around a topic. The Wall Street Bets community turned to Discord during the GameStop craze earlier this year, for example.Like many other social networks, the company has had problems with abuse and problematic users. The app became a favorite destination for far-right followers a few years ago, and it was used in 2017 to help organize the "Unite The Right" rally in Charlottesville, Va., which resulted in the death of one person. Discord eventually banned those groups from the app.Discord offered live voice chat before apps like Clubhouse became popular. Live voice chats are the hottest trend in social media right now, thanks to apps like Clubhouse and Twitter's new feature called Spaces. Discord was early to the trend, and its live audio chat feature is popular for gamers who want to talk about what they're playing in real-time. Buying Discord would give Microsoft a social media service that's already much bigger than Clubhouse and approaching the size of Twitter in terms of users.Microsoft is one of the only companies that can afford Discord and avoid antitrust scrutiny. With a $10 billion price tag, there aren't too many gaming or social media companies that can afford to buy Discord. Sony can't do it. Neither can Nintendo, EA or Epic Games. And the other companies that can afford Discord likely don't want to go near it due to the government's momentum behind antitrust actions against Big Tech. Facebook, for example, currently faces two antitrust lawsuits that largely focus on its acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp.The last thing Facebook would try to do today is attempt to buy another multibillion-dollar social media company in today's regulatory environment.VIDEO5:5805:58An inside look at the gamer chat app DiscordTech

2021/03/22, From left, Wiz employees Yaniv Shaked, Idan Gazit, Adi Leist Sharon, Guy Rozendorn, George Pisha, Eyal Wiener in Israel in March 2021.WizPublic market investors have trimmed their stakes in technology stocks in recent weeks, but the start-up market remains hot. Wiz, a year-old cybersecurity company with just 65 employees, is now worth $1.7 billion after a recent $130 million funding round.The activity suggests that investors continue to see growth prospects for tools that can aid in cloud adoption.Wiz has a strong pedigree: Co-founders Yinon Costica, Ami Luttwak, Assaf Rappaport and Roy Reznik sold their previous company, Adallom, to Microsoft for a reported $320 million. The Adallom software became part of the lineup of security tools Microsoft started selling to companies.Last year, after learning about how companies were adopting cloud services at Microsoft, the Adallom founders started working on Wiz. They built an online tool that identifies security issues lurking in the public cloud infrastructure that organizations are increasingly using to run software, so that administrators can quickly take action. The service works with the majority of services available from market-leading cloud Amazon Web Services, as well as Microsoft's Azure and the Google Cloud Platform.Wiz ranks by importance the vulnerabilities, identity and access problems, and passwords across multiple clouds. The cloud providers themselves have introduced security services over the years, but they're generally aimed at their own clouds. Security companies such as Check Point and Palo Alto Networks are hungry to sell companies software to assist with cloud deployments, too. Wiz can scan a client's cloud footprint in less than a day, while it would take 12 to 18 months to start running a system that relies on agents to track activity, such as what Palo Alto Networks offers, Rappaport said.Since Wiz was founded, corporations, schools and government agencies have had to keep their people productive as they work from home, and demand has increased for tools that can help secure cloud use. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said in January that the company's security business had reached $10 billion in annual revenue, up 40%.While Rappaport, Wiz's CEO, was at Microsoft working as general manager of the company's cloud security group, he said people were still discussing internally whether Microsoft should be charging customers for security products. "We won this debate," he said.In addition, this year many organizations have had to determine if they had installed malicious updates to SolarWinds software, a security incident known as Sunburst among other names, and if they were running Microsoft email and calendar software that was at risk of being hacked. The events might wind up benefiting Wiz and its peers. Last week CrowdStrike CEO George Kurtz told analysts on a conference call that "customers are looking to de-risk their security architecture by choosing an alternative vendor to Microsoft."Wiz can show the specific components of a company's cloud environment that are running vulnerable software. New software flaws are always emerging, Costica said. The question is how fast organizations can respond to new issues, and Wiz can help with that, he said.Meanwhile, Rappaport and his co-founders have been racking up business of their own at Wiz, and its momentum impressed venture investors."I think that one of the fastest-growing companies in the past that I've watched closely was Palo Alto Networks, and Wiz is growing faster than Palo Alto Networks," said Gili Raanan, a general partner at Sequoia Capital in Israel and founder of venture firm Cyberstarts. Raanan invested in Adallom in 2012. He said Wiz has already accumulated significant business, including from Aon and DocuSign. "This is not just empty hopes," he said. Raanan also pointed to the team's pedigree in cloud security.Advent Venture Partners led the new round in Wiz, which has offices in Israel and Palo Alto, California. Cyberstarts, Index Ventures, Insight Partners and Sequoia also participated.WATCH: Microsoft says a group of Chinese hackers targeted its email serverVIDEO1:5301:53Microsoft says a group of Chinese hackers targeted its email serverSquawk Box

2021/03/22, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella gestures while speaking during a company event in San Francisco.Robert Galbraith | ReutersMicrosoft said Monday it will begin to bring back employees to its headquarters in some capacity starting March 29.Microsoft said it will allow employees who work at its Redmond, Washington, sites and nearby campuses to choose between returning to work full time, continuing to work remotely or implementing a hybrid model."We've been closely monitoring local health data for months and have determined that the campus can safely accommodate more employees on-site while staying aligned to Washington state capacity limits," the company said.Currently, Microsoft has work sites in 21 countries that have been able to accommodate additional workers in its facilities, which it said represents about 20% of its global workforce. The company said it has more than 160,000 employees.Microsoft told employees last October it will allow more flexibility to work from home, even after it's safe to return to the office. The company said it planned to allow employees to work remotely less than 50% of the time. Employees can also request approval from their managers to work remotely full time or to potentially move to a new location.Following several months of office closures due to the coronavirus pandemic, employers are beginning to permanently shift to more hybrid work models or planning to forgo traditional office spaces entirely.Spotify said in February it is adopting a "Work from Anywhere" model, which will allow employees to choose whether they want to be in the office full time, be at home full time or a combination of the two. Salesforce also announced it will let employees choose whether they want to come into the office again, saying "the 9-to-5 workday is dead." Twitter and Square are letting employees work from home "forever." Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO2:5702:57Slack CEO on the future of remote work in different sectorsSquawk Box

2021/03/12, In this articleMSFTMicrosoft President Brad Smith speaks (L) and Sundar Pichai of Google.Getty ImagesMicrosoft and Google sparred Friday over their practices and treatment of news outlets in a battle between antitrust targets of past and present.In his written testimony for a hearing before the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust Friday, Microsoft President Brad Smith said Google has made journalism outlets dependent upon its vast array of services, including analytics and advertising tools, while profiting from access to their content. Smith said Google relies on content from these outlets to keep its users engaged, citing his own experience with Microsoft's Bing search engine.Smith said referral traffic from Google has real value to news outlets, but "monetizing that traffic has become increasingly difficult for news organizations because most of the profit has been squeezed out by Google." He pointed to a steep decline in newspaper advertising revenue from $49.4 billion in 2005 to $14.3 billion in 2018, according to Pew Research. Over the same period, he said, Google's ad revenue grew from $6.1 billion to $116 billion."This is not a coincidence," he said.Google swung back at Smith in a statement released ahead of the hearing, calling back to Microsoft's period of antitrust scrutiny two decades ago."We respect Microsoft's success and we compete hard with them in cloud computing, search, productivity apps, video conferencing, email and many other areas," Google's senior vice president of Global Affairs Kent Walker said in a blog post. "Unfortunately, as competition in these areas intensifies, they are reverting to their familiar playbook of attacking rivals and lobbying for regulations that benefit their own interests.""They are now making self-serving claims and are even willing to break the way the open web works in an effort to undercut a rival," Walker wrote. "And their claims about our business and how we work with news publishers are just plain wrong."While Google has more recently been in the hot seat when it comes to antitrust enforcement, facing several lawsuits from the federal government and state attorneys general, Microsoft was the focus of a landmark antitrust suit around the turn of the century. That lawsuit, which claimed Microsoft illegally maintained a monopoly and edged out the competition by tying its Internet Explorer browser to PCs using its operating system, has deeply informed the current allegations against Google, which also involve alleged anti-competitive contracts.Walker claimed Microsoft's testimony hearkens back to that same period."This latest attack marks a return to Microsoft's longtime practices," he wrote. "And it's no coincidence that Microsoft's newfound interest in attacking us comes on the heels of the SolarWinds attack and at a moment when they've allowed tens of thousands of their customers — including government agencies in the U.S., NATO allies, banks, nonprofits, telecommunications providers, public utilities, police, fire and rescue units, hospitals and, presumably, news organizations — to be actively hacked via major Microsoft vulnerabilities."Microsoft infamously ran a campaign against Google around 2012, mocking its services with a parody called "Scroogled." The campaign was meant to point out to consumers allegedly unfair practices by Google and direct them to Microsoft's search competitor instead. Walker said the latest attack was reminiscent of the "old diversionary Scroogled playbook."The two giants most recently went head-to-head over a similar issue in Australia, which had been working on new laws that would require Facebook and Google to pay news publishers for linking to their content. While the legislation was ultimately watered down after Facebook made good on its promise to stop displaying news content in the country, it's served as a warning to the tech companies that further changes could be on the way in other parts of the world.Though Google never pulled its news service from Australia and ultimately struck deals with publishers, Microsoft had signaled it was ready to step in if Google removed its news service. The company said it would be willing to play by Australia's rules if it were designated subject to them and would not threaten to pull its service.Walker said in the statement Friday that Google remains committed to working with news organizations and policymakers "to enable a strong future for journalism."Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: How US antitrust law works, and what it means for Big TechVIDEO11:4011:40The evolution of US antitrust lawPolitics

2021/04/08, HONG KONG, CHINA - 2021/03/12: American FedEx Express delivery truck seen in Hong Kong. (Photo by Chukrut Budrul/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images)SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2021/03/09, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., pauses during a Bloomberg event on the opening day of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, on Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesOne week ago, Microsoft disclosed that Chinese hackers were gaining access to organizations' email accounts through vulnerabilities in its Exchange Server email software and issued security patches.The hack will probably stand out as one of the top cybersecurity events of the year, because Exchange is still widely used around the world. It could lead companies to spend more on security software to prevent future hacks, and to move to cloud-based email instead of running their own email servers in-house.VIDEO2:0602:06Cybercrime could cost $10.5 trillion dollars by 2025, according to Cybersecurity VenturesThe News with Shepard SmithIT departments are working on applying the patches, but that takes time and the vulnerability is still widespread. On Monday, internet security company Netcraft said it had run an analysis over the weekend and observed over 99,000 servers online running unpatched Outlook Web Access software.Shares of Microsoft stock have fallen 1.3% since March 1, the day before the company disclosed the issues, while the S&P 500 index is down 0.7% over the same period.Here's what you need to know about the Microsoft cyberattacks:What happened?On March 2, Microsoft said there were vulnerabilities in its Exchange Server mail and calendar software for corporate and government data centers. The company released patches for the 2010, 2013, 2016 and 2019 versions of Exchange.Generally, Microsoft releases updates on Patch Tuesday, which occurs on the second Tuesday of each month, but the announcement about attacks on the Exchange software came on the first Tuesday, emphasizing its significance.Microsoft also took the unusual step of issuing a patch for the 2010 edition, even though support for it ended in October. "That means the vulnerabilities the attackers exploited have been in the Microsoft Exchange Server code base for more than 10 years," security blogger Brian Krebs wrote in a Monday blog post.Hackers had initially pursued specific targets, but in February they started going after more servers with the vulnerable software that they could spot, Krebs wrote.Are people exploiting the vulnerabilities?Yes. Microsoft said the main group exploiting vulnerabilities is a nation-state group based in China that it calls Hafnium.When did the attacks start?Attacks on the Exchange software started in early January, according to security company Volexity, which Microsoft gave credit to for identifying some of the issues.How does the attack work?Tom Burt, a Microsoft corporate vice president, described in a blog post last week how an attacker would go through multiple steps:First, it would gain access to an Exchange Server either with stolen passwords or by using the previously undiscovered vulnerabilities to disguise itself as someone who should have access. Second, it would create what's called a web shell to control the compromised server remotely. Third, it would use that remote access – run from the U.S.-based private servers – to steal data from an organization's network.Among other things, attackers installed and used software to take email data, Microsoft said.Do the flaws affect cloud services like Office 365?No. The four vulnerabilities Microsoft disclosed do not affect Exchange Online, Microsoft's cloud-based email and calendar service that's included in commercial Office 365 and Microsoft 365 subscription bundles.What are the attackers targeting?The group has aimed to gain information from defense contractors, schools and other entities in the U.S., Burt wrote. Victims include U.S. retailers, according to security company FireEye, and the city of Lake Worth Beach, Fla., according to the Palm Beach Post. The European Banking Authority said it had been hit.How many victims are there altogether?Media outlets have published varying estimates on the number of victims of the attacks. On Friday the Wall Street Journal, citing an unnamed person, said there could be 250,000 or more.Will the patches banish any attackers from compromised systems?Microsoft said no.Does this have anything do with SolarWinds?No, the attacks on Exchange Server do not seem to not related to the SolarWinds threat, to which former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Russia was probably connected. Still, the disclosure comes less than three months after U.S. government agencies and companies said they had found malicious content in updates to Orion software from information-technology company SolarWinds in their networks.What's Microsoft doing?Microsoft is encouraging customers to install the security patches it delivered last week. It has also released information to help customers figure out if their networks had been hit."Because we are aware of active exploits of related vulnerabilities in the wild (limited targeted attacks), our recommendation is to install these updates immediately to protect against these attacks," Microsoft said in a blog post.On Monday the company made it easier for companies to treat their infrastructure by releasing security patches for versions of Exchange Server that did not have the most recent available software updates. Until that point, Microsoft had said customers would have to apply the most recent updates before installing the security patches, which delayed the process of dealing with the hack."We are working closely with the CISA [the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency], other government agencies, and security companies to ensure we are providing the best possible guidance and mitigation for our customers," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Monday. "The best protection is to apply updates as soon as possible across all impacted systems. We continue to help customers by providing additional investigation and mitigation guidance. Impacted customers should contact our support teams for additional help and resources." What are the implications?The cyberattacks could end up being beneficial for Microsoft. Besides making Exchange Server, it sells security software that clients might be inclined to start using."We believe this attack, like SolarWinds, will keep cybersecurity urgency high and likely bolster broad-based security spending in 2021, including with Microsoft, and speed the migration to cloud," KeyBanc analysts led by Michael Turits, who have the equivalent of a buy rating on Microsoft stock, wrote in a note distributed to clients on Monday.But many Microsoft customers have already switched to cloud-based email, and some companies rely on Google's cloud-based Gmail, which is not affected by the Exchange Server flaws. As a result, the impact of the hacks could have been worse if they had come five or 10 years ago, and there won't necessarily be a race to the cloud as a result of Hafnium."I meet a lot of organizations, big and small, and it's more the exception than the rule when somebody's all on prem," said Ryan Noon, CEO of e-mail security start-up Material Security.DA Davidson analysts Andrew Nowinski and Hannah Baade wrote in a Tuesday note that the attacks could increase adoption of products from security companies such as Cyberark, Proofpoint and Tenable.WATCH: A cybersecurity stock analyst weighs in on the Microsoft email hackVIDEO9:2009:20A cybersecurity stock analyst weighs in on the Microsoft email hackFast Money

2021/03/09, In this articleMSFTTodd Howard, director and executive producer at Bethesda Game Studios.Christian Petersen | Getty ImagesMicrosoft says it has closed its blockbuster acquisition of ZeniMax, the parent company of video game publisher Bethesda.The company announced in September that it would buy ZeniMax for $7.5 billion in cash. It's the biggest gaming acquisition in Microsoft's history, eclipsing the $2.5 billion the firm paid to buy Minecraft developer Mojang in 2014.The Bethesda deal's completion comes days after the European Union and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission gave the takeover their blessing. Bethesda is a household name in gaming. It's published a number of hit franchises including the role-playing game series Fallout and The Elder Scrolls, and the Doom shooter franchise.In a blog post Tuesday, Microsoft confirmed rumors that some new Bethesda games would be exclusive to its Xbox console and Windows PCs."With the addition of the Bethesda creative teams, gamers should know that Xbox consoles, PC, and Game Pass will be the best place to experience new Bethesda games, including some new titles in the future that will be exclusive to Xbox and PC players," said Phil Spencer, head of Microsoft's Xbox unit.Such a move would ramp up Microsoft's competition with Sony. Both firms debuted their next-generation consoles last year, hoping to lure in gamers with the promise of big improvements on the older systems.Microsoft took a different approach to Sony though, heavily marketing its Xbox Game Pass subscription service which offers players access to a library of games. Sony, on the other hand, is touting new PlayStation exclusives to attract gamers.With Bethesda, Microsoft is hoping to build out Xbox Game Pass by including the Rockville, Maryland-based studio's catalog of titles. But it also aims to convince people to play on its Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S platforms and PCs, rather than Sony's new PlayStation 5.Microsoft has often been seen as lagging behind Sony when it comes to major first-party releases. Xbox Game Studios' highly anticipated new Halo game, Halo Infinite, was delayed until later this year after a backlash over quality issues in a reveal of the game.Gaming has been a key beneficiary from the coronavirus pandemic as people have been spending more of their time at home. Major publishers like Microsoft's Xbox Game Studios and Electronic Arts have looked to capitalize on that trend by using their huge cash piles to snap up smaller game developers.

2021/03/09, A woman wears a mask as she stands aside a closed Microsoft Store in Oxford Circus on March 17, 2020 in London, England.Alberto Pezzali | NurPhoto | Getty ImagesA week after Microsoft announced that its widely used email server program had been hacked, experts are not encouraged by what they have found."In short, it's gotten really messy," said Katie Nickels, the director of intelligence at the cybersecurity firm Red Canary. "We are seeing no signs of this slowing down."The cybersecurity community sprang into action after Microsoft first announced a series of vulnerabilities that let hackers break into the company's Exchange email and calendar programs. China has used it to spy on a wide range of industries in the United States ranging from medical research to law firms to defense contractors, the company said. China has denied responsibility.Read more from NBC News:U.S. issues warning after Microsoft says China hacked its mail server programRipe for extortion? Navajo Nation hospital targeted by large-scale ransomware hackGab, a social platform favored by the far right, says it was hackedBut it hasn't stopped there. Microsoft's announcement has complicated the situation, with efforts to fix the flaws appearing to have drawn more hackers to exploit organizations that haven't yet updated the software.Nickels said she'd seen indications five different hacker groups, whose identities are unknown, were now exploiting it.The list of victims is growing, said Ben Read, the director of threat analysis at the cybersecurity company Mandiant."It's big," he said. "We're above 40 incidents we're responding to, just current customers we have. We're at over 500 likely victims based on confirmation of likely sources."While there is no official, public list of victims, the full tally is "definitely in the tens of thousands," Read said. "There's definitely a lot of small-, medium-sized entities. That's the customer base of Exchange."A White House National Security Council spokesperson said in an emailed statement that the Biden administration "is undertaking a whole-of-government response to assess and address the impact." "This is an active threat still developing," the spokesperson said.While there have been no reports so far that any government agencies have been affected, the U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the country's primary cybersecurity agency, on Wednesday exercised its emergency powers to force government agencies to update to the latest version of Exchange. In an unusually candid message, the agency then tweeted Monday evening that "CISA urges ALL organizations across ALL sectors to follow guidance to address the widespread domestic and international exploitation of Microsoft Exchange Server product vulnerabilities."The hack started quietly, as a more surgical operation. Initially, the only hackers exploiting Exchange were the ones Microsoft identified as Chinese spies, sometime around the beginning of the year, researchers say.Near the end of January, the cybersecurity company Volexity noticed hackers spying on two of its customers and alerted Microsoft so it could begin working on a fix in its next Exchange software update."They were using that explicitly to steal emails," Volexity President Steven Adair said in a phone call. "It was under the radar."Adair said that after he told Microsoft, he noticed a change in the hackers' activity: They seemed to realize a patch was coming, so they moved from stealthily reading emails to trying to create footholds to stay in their victims' networks, which made them far more visible to cybersecurity defenders."You don't care if they're noisy, because you're trying to beat a patch," he said of the hackers' pivot. "You found your high-priority targets, you've been stealing emails, and now you want to move on. Maybe you want to build infrastructure to launch future attacks."Nickels, of Red Canary, said that hackers began frantically exploiting the Exchange vulnerabilities around the end of February, and it's escalated since."We continued to see exploitation of these vulnerabilities over the weekend," she said. "Any organization with an Exchange server needs to take it very seriously."Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO9:2609:26How the massive SolarWinds hack went downDigital Original

2021/03/08, Visitors queue to play the video game Fallout 76, developed and published by Bethesda Softworks, during the Paris Games Week on October 27, 2018.Chesnot | Getty ImagesLONDON — The European Union approved Microsoft's $7.5 billion acquisition of ZeniMax, the parent company of iconic video game publisher Bethesda Softworks.The European Commission — the executive body of the EU — made the decision to clear the Microsoft-ZeniMax deal on Friday, according to an update on its merger case register. The Commission says it found no competition concerns resulting from the takeover.Microsoft announced it would buy ZeniMax in September. It's the biggest gaming acquisition in Microsoft's history, eclipsing the $2.5 billion the firm paid for Minecraft developer Mojang in 2014.Bethesda is a household name in the video game industry, known for publishing a raft of successful game franchises including Fallout, The Elder Scrolls and Doom. Microsoft plans to push its subscription offering, Xbox Game Pass, by bringing Bethesda's games to its extensive library of titles.Microsoft envisions the future of gaming as an ecosystem that encompasses its Xbox consoles as well as Netflix-style subscription plans and cloud gaming. The company rolled its game streaming service xCloud to Android users in September and plans to launch it on iOS as a web app later this year.Cloud gaming lets users play a game that's streamed to their device from a company's remote infrastructure.Microsoft and Sony launched their respective Xbox Series X and PlayStation 5 consoles in November. They've both suffered with supply issues due to a global chip shortage that's affected everything from the auto industry to consumer electronics.Gaming has been a key beneficiary from the coronavirus pandemic. Major publishers like Microsoft's Xbox Game Studios and Electronic Arts have looked to capitalize on that by using their huge cash hoards to snap up smaller game developers.

2021/04/01, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during the Microsoft Developers Build Conference in Seattle, Washington, U.S., on Monday, May 7, 2018. The Build conference, marking its second consecutive year in Seattle, is expected to put emphasis on the company's cloud technologies and the artificial intelligence features within those services.Grant Hindsley | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines in midday trading. Microsoft — Microsoft shares rose 2.4% in midday trading after the software giant confirmed that it will build more than 120,000 custom HoloLens augmented reality headsets for the U.S. Army. The contract will be worth $21.9 billion over 10 years and is considered a key revenue-generating achievement after years of research and development on the futurist product.QuantumScape – Shares of the lithium-battery producer ticked up 9% after the company revealed that it met the requirements to close a $100 million investment by Volkswagen. The auto company is set to test QuantumScape's solid-state lithium-metal cells in their labs in Germany.Western Digital – Shares of the chipmaker jumped 4.8% after it and Micron Technology are said to be exploring a deal to buy Japanese semiconductor firm Kioxia for about $30 billion, according to a Wall Street Journal report.Ford — Ford slipped 1.5% after it said it's planning for more downtime at several U.S. factories as a global shortage of semiconductors continues to interrupt production. The company said Wednesday that it would halt manufacturing at several plants throughout the U.S. and one site in Canada. Those locations produce an array of autos, including popular F-150 pickups and vans to the Ford Explorer SUV and Ford Escape crossover.Nio — The China-based electric vehicle maker saw its shares rise about 2.7% after the company said it delivered 7,257 vehicles in March. That marked a 373% increase over the same month last year.Wingstop – The restaurant company's shares rose 6.4% after the company recently released preliminary results for its first quarter. The preliminary results showed that Wingstop's domestic same-store sales are up 20.7% on a year-over-year basis, with digital sales surging by 63.6%.CarMax — Shares of CarMax dipped more than 6% after the company missed revenue estimates in its quarterly report. The car company made $5.16 billion, below estimates of $5.17 billion, according to Refinitiv. CarMax also announced it would acquire the remaining part of Edmunds that it didn't already own, in a cash-and-stock deal valuing the auto information provider at $404 million.Micron — Shares of the chipmaker rose 4.6% after the company beat on the top and bottom lines of its quarterly results. Micron earned 98 cents per share on revenue of $6.24 billion. Analysts expected earnings of 95 cents per share on revenue of $6.21 billion, according to Refinitiv. Micron also gave strong-than-expected third quarter earnings and revenue guidance.— CNBC's Maggie Fitzgerald, Tom Franck and Rich Mendez contributed reporting.

2021/03/02, In this articleMSFTVIDEO4:3404:34Microsoft's Alex Kipman on the future of mixed realitySquawk AlleyMicrosoft on Tuesday announced Mesh, a service to build apps for people to collaborate in augmented reality.Augmented reality (AR) shows computer-generated images superimposed over the real world, and nearly all the major tech players are working on the technology as they strive to create the next computing platform that will replace the smartphone. However, AR headsets today are often clunky and expensive -- Microsoft's HoloLens starts at $3,500 -- and so far they've mainly been used in industrial applications. Apple and Facebook are reportedly building their own AR headsets or glasses for release over the next couple of years, which could help validate the market for consumers and create a sort of AR gold rush.With Mesh, Microsoft wants to ensure that people who don't have AR systems can participate in virtual gatherings with those who do. The goal is to enable people to join Mesh-enabled meetings on any device, such as a PC, a tablet or a smartphone. It will also work with virtual reality (VR) headsets -- a slightly different class of device that immerse people in a computer-generated world but block out the physical environment, and are generally cheaper and more common than AR headsets. For example, HP sells a VR device that works with Windows, the Reverb G2, for $600.To illustrate what Mesh can do, Microsoft built a sample app that runs on the HoloLens.After putting on a HoloLens and opening the app, a person can design an avatar to represent themselves and join a meeting with other people, whose avatars appear like holograms. People's heads, bodies and hands can all move thanks to the information the headsets capture, and it's possible to talk with everyone, similar to a video call. Additionally, users can import, display and manipulate ready-made and custom three-dimensional holograms. Three-dimensional drawing tools are available, too.To demonstrate the technology more broadly, the company is coming out with a Mesh-enabled version of AltspaceVR, a VR meeting app. Customers can request to download the app. Microsoft acquired AltspaceVR in 2017 for undisclosed terms.Over time, Microsoft plans to incorporate Mesh into its own applications, such as the Teams collaboration app that has become more widely used during the Covid pandemic as a way for co-workers to meet without being in the office.Mesh will be an Azure service and associated software development kit. Select customers can start testing the Mesh cloud service now in preview before it becomes more widely available. Microsoft has not disclosed how much it will cost to use the service. Azure is a public cloud service for hosting applications.Microsoft derives less than 5% of its revenue from devices, while one analyst estimates that Azure represents 17% of revenue. Azure revenue grew 50% year over year in the fourth quarter, while devices revenue increased less than 4%.WATCH: Here's how Microsoft's augmented reality headset will make Army soldiers deadlierVIDEO2:5902:59Microsoft's augmented reality headset will make Army soldiers deadlierTech Guide

2021/03/03, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during a Bloomberg event on the opening day of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, on Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella is not the type of executive to boast and put down rivals. He's been more measured since taking over from the more outspoken Steve Ballmer seven years ago, forming alliances with challengers such as Red Hat and Salesforce and even making it possible for people to use Amazon's Alexa assistant into the Windows operating systems.On Thursday he put his more peaceful approach into words when former Microsoft executive Jeff Raikes asked him what leadership advice he gives inside the company."Just saying, 'Well, my team is great and everybody else sucks,' that's not leadership," Nadella said during an appearance at the Economic Summit organized by Stanford University's Institute for Economic Policy Research. "In a multi-stakeholder, multi-constituent world, you've got to bring people across your enterprise and outside together."Besides standing out from Ballmer, who leveled critiques at efforts from rivals like Apple and Google, Nadella also differs from his peers at other large technology companies, including Oracle's Larry Ellison and Salesforce's Marc Benioff.Nadella joined Microsoft in 1992 while co-founder Bill Gates was still in charge. But Nadella is different from Gates, too. In a 2013 ask-me-anything session on Reddit he wrote that "seriously Bing is the better product at this point," despite that Google had controlling market share in internet search.In contrast, Nadella's Microsoft has become more tolerant of other forces in business. While open-source software was seen as competition in the past, Microsoft bought open-source code storage service GitHub for $7.5 billion in 2018, and the company incorporated the Linux open-source operating system into Windows.When Nadella does draw distinctions from rivals, he's less pronounced about it. He said at a Microsoft's Ignite conference on Tuesday, for example, that "no customer wants to be dependent on a provider that sells them technology on one end and competes with them on the other" -- likely a reference to Amazon, which has competed with some of its cloud customers.Here are some of the other points on leadership that Nadella mentioned at the virtual event:"Leaders have this innate capability to go into situations that are uncertain, ambiguous and bring clarity...leaders are not people who go into a confusing situation and create more confusion. They actually create clarity, and that's sort of one thing that leaders absolutely have to hold themselves to as accountable.""Leaders create energy. You know when you've met someone who's a leader because you walk out saying, 'Wow, I want to join the parade. I want to be part of that team.'""Leaders don't say, 'Give me the perfect pitch in order to perform.' I can't say, 'Let me wait for the pandemic to be done to show my leadership skills.' You have to take an over-constrained problem in many cases and un-constrain yourself, and un-constrain more particularly the team that you are leading, so that they can go on to achieve things."Nadella said that no one will be perfect. But he does ask himself if he's better than he was yesterday.WATCH: Citi names Microsoft as top software pickVIDEO3:0203:02Citi names Microsoft as top software pickSquawk Alley

2021/03/23, The new online PC game sales business designed by Discord offers a select menu of games curated by human staffers, as well as a subscription service. Other gaming sites offer thousands of games with algorithms making recommendations to users. DiscordMicrosoft is in talks to buy messaging platform Discord for more than $10 billion, Bloomberg News reported, citing people familiar with the matter.Discord has reached out to potential buyers and Microsoft is one of them, the report said, citing people familiar with the matter, while one of them said it was more likely to go public than sell itself.Earlier in the day, VentureBeat reported that Discord was exploring a sale and it was in final talks with a party.Both Microsoft and Discord did not immediately respond to Reuters requests for comments.The Covid-19 pandemic has boosted the prospects of gaming companies as people stayed at home and turned to video games for entertainment during lockdowns.Earlier this month, U.S. gaming company Roblox made a strong market debut after going public through a direct listing rather than a traditional initial public offering.

2021/03/29, VIDEO0:5100:51Stock futures point to mixed open after Dow's record closeMorning ReportU.S. stocks fell Tuesday as major technology shares came under pressure again after the 10-year Treasury yield touched its highest level since January 2020.The Dow Jones Industrial Average dipped 104.41 points, or 0.3%, to 33,066.96, slipping from a record closing high. Apple and Microsoft were among the biggest losers in the 30-stock Dow, falling more than 1% each. The S&P 500 slid 0.3% to 3,958.55, led by losses in consumer staples and technology. The Nasdaq Composite ended the session 0.1% lower at 13,045.39. The tech-heavy benchmark was down more than 1% at one point.The 10-year Treasury yield climbed 6 basis points to top 1.77% earlier Tuesday, hitting its highest level in 14 months as vaccine rollouts and expected infrastructure spending boosted the outlook for a broad economic recovery and rising inflation. The benchmark rate later turned flat at 1.72%."There's two different sides to rising rates — is it being driven by fears of inflation or by optimism about the economy? And lately it's been driven more by optimism about the economy," said Tom Hainlin, global investment strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management.Investors digested a reading on consumer confidence that far exceeded expectations. The Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index surged in March to 109.7, its highest reading in a year. Economists polled by Dow Jones expected the index to rise to 96.8 from 90.4 in February.Classic reopening plays rallied after the data release. American Airlines jumped more than 5%, while United Airlines popped more than 3%. Carnival and Norwegian Cruise Line both climbed at least 3%.The market experienced heightened volatility this week amid the continued fallout after a hedge fund was forced to liquidate its position in several media stocks.ViacomCBS and Discovery both rebounded after registering heavy losses last week prompted by Archegos Capital Management selling large blocks of stocks late last week. Discovery jumped more than 5%, while ViacomCBS rose 3.6%.Wells Fargo advanced more than 2% after the bank said it didn't experience losses related to closing out its exposure to Archegos.Other bank stocks also staged a comeback. Goldman Sachs climbed 1.9%. JPMorgan and Bank of America also rose more than 1% each.Credit Suisse and Nomura posted heavy losses this week after warning of "significant" hits to first-quarter results following the hedge fund's selling.Despite the recent volatility, the Dow and S&P 500 are firmly higher for the month, gaining 6.9% and 3.9%, respectively.President Joe Biden is expected to provide details about his infrastructure plan when he travels to Pittsburgh on Wednesday. The spending package could cost north of $3 trillion."The significant tailwinds propelling equities higher and the forces that have driven equities into, during, and now out of the pandemic remain," analysts at Evercore ISI wrote in a note to clients."Investors seem to understand that faster growth, rising earnings growth expectations, still historically low corporate borrowing costs, and pent up consumer demand will fuel further market gains," the firm added.Evercore envisions the pace of gains slowing, however, with equities already pricing in a reacceleration of growth.Wild swings could hit the market later this week when pension funds and other big investors conduct their quarter-end rebalancing. The recent jump in bond yields could set up money managers for big moves in their portfolios.

2021/03/03, VIDEO1:5301:53Microsoft says a group of Chinese hackers targeted its email serverSquawk BoxA China-linked cyber-espionage group has been remotely plundering email inboxes using freshly discovered flaws in Microsoft mail server software, the company and outside researchers said on Tuesday — an example of how commonly used programs can be exploited to cast a wide net online.In a blog post, Microsoft said the hacking campaign made use of four previously undetected vulnerabilities in different versions of the software and was the work of a group it dubs HAFNIUM, which it described as a state-sponsored entity operating out of China.In a separate blog post, cybersecurity firm Volexity said that in January it had seen the hackers use one of the vulnerabilities to remotely steal "the full contents of several user mailboxes." All they needed to know were the details of Exchange server and of the account they wanted to pillage, Volexity said.China opposes all forms of cyberattacks, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a news briefing in Beijing on Wednesday."China wishes relevant media and companies take a professional and responsible attitude, and base characterizations of cyberattacks on ample evidence, rather than groundless guesses and accusations," he said.Ahead of the Microsoft announcement, the hackers' increasingly aggressive moves began to attract attention across the cybersecurity community.Mike McLellan, director of intelligence for Dell Technologies Inc's Secureworks, said ahead of the Microsoft announcement that he had noticed a sudden spike in activity touching Exchange servers overnight on Sunday, with around 10 customers affected at his firm.Microsoft's suite of products has been under scrutiny since the hack of SolarWinds, the Texas-based software firm that served as a springboard for several intrusions across government and the private sector. In other cases, hackers took advantage of the way customers had set up their Microsoft services to compromise their targets or dive further into affected networks.Hackers who went after SolarWinds also breached Microsoft itself, accessing and downloading source code - including elements of Exchange, the company's email and calendaring product.McLellan said that for now, the hacking activity he had seen appeared focused on seeding malicious software and setting the stage for a potentially deeper intrusion rather than aggressively moving into networks right away."We haven't seen any follow-on activity yet," he said. "We're going to find a lot of companies affected but a smaller number of companies actually exploited."Microsoft said targets included infectious disease researchers, law firms, higher education institutions, defense contractors, policy think tanks, and non-governmental groups.

2021/03/05, In this articleMSFTDado Ruvic | ReutersMore than 20,000 U.S. organizations have been compromised through a back door installed via recently patched flaws in Microsoft's email software, a person familiar with the U.S. government's response said on Friday.The hacking has already reached more places than all of the tainted code downloaded from SolarWinds Corp, the company at the heart of another massive hacking spree uncovered in December.The latest hack has left channels for remote access spread among credit unions, town governments and small businesses, according to records from the U.S. investigation.Tens of thousands of organizations in Asia and Europe are also affected, the records show.The hacks are continuing despite emergency patches issued by Microsoft on Tuesday.Microsoft, which had initially said the hacks consisted of "limited and targeted attacks," declined to comment on the scale of the problem on Friday but said it was working with government agencies and security companies to provide help to customers.It added, "impacted customers should contact our support teams for additional help and resources."One scan of connected devices showed only 10% of those vulnerable had installed the patches by Friday, though the number was rising.Because installing the patch does not get rid of the back doors, U.S. officials are racing to figure out how to notify all the victims and guide them in their hunt.All of those affected appear to run Web versions of email client Outlook and host them on their own machines, instead of relying on cloud providers. That may have spared many of the biggest companies and federal government agencies, the records suggest.The federal Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency did not respond to a request for comment.Earlier on Friday, White House press secretary Jen Psaki told reporters that the vulnerabilities found in Microsoft's widely used Exchange servers were "significant," and "could have far-reaching impacts.""We're concerned that there are a large number of victims," Psaki said.Microsoft and the person working with the U.S. response blamed the initial wave of attacks on a Chinese government-backed actor. A Chinese government spokesman said the country was not behind the intrusions.What started as a controlled attack late last year against a few classic espionage targets grew last month to a widespread campaign. Security officials said that implied that unless China had changed tactics, a second group may have become involved.More attacks are expected from other hackers as the code used to take control of the mail servers spreads.The hackers have only used the back doors to re-enter and move around the infected networks in a small percentage of cases, probably less than 1 in 10, the person working with the government said."A couple hundred guys are exploiting them as fast as they can," stealing data and installing other ways to return later, he said.The initial avenue of attack was discovered by prominent Taiwanese cyber researcher Cheng-Da Tsai, who said he reported the flaw to Microsoft in January. He said in a blog post that he was investigating whether the information leaked.He did not respond to requests for further comment.

2021/02/23, In this articleMSFTFEYEMicrosoft president Brad Smith takes part in a roundtable discussion with US President Donald Trump and industry executives on reopening the country, in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington, DC on May 29, 2020.Mandel Ngan | AFP | Getty ImagesThe massive hack into government systems through a software contractor would have remained unknown by the public if not for one company's decision to be transparent about a breach of its systems, Microsoft President Brad Smith told lawmakers at a hearing Tuesday."The fact that we are here today, discussing this attack, dissecting what went wrong, and identifying ways to mitigate future risk, is occurring only because my fellow witness, Kevin Mandia, and his colleagues at FireEye, chose to be open and transparent about what they found in their own systems, and to invite us at Microsoft to work with them to investigate the attack," Smith told the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, according to his prepared remarks."Without this transparency, we would likely still be unaware of this campaign. In some respect, this is one of the most powerful lessons for all of us. Without this type of transparency, we will fall short in strengthening cybersecurity."Smith's testimony highlights how many cybersecurity incidents can go undisclosed. Smith told lawmakers that private sector companies should be required to be transparent about significant breaches of their systems. He compared the "patchwork" of disclosure requirements in the U.S. to more consistent obligations in places like the European Union.FireEye disclosed in a regulatory filing in December that it had been hacked by what it believed to be a state-sponsored actor who mainly sought information related to its government customers. The company said the attack was unusually advanced, employing "a novel combination of techniques not witnessed by us or our partners in the past."Soon after, Reuters reported that hackers possibly linked to Russia accessed email systems at the U.S. Commerce and Treasury departments through SolarWinds software updates. The Defense Department, State Department and Department of Homeland Security were also affected, The New York Times later reported. Reuters reported, citing sources, that the SolarWinds attack was related to the FireEye incident.A few days later, Reuters reported that Microsoft was also hacked. U.S. agencies later shared that Russian actors were likely the source of the attack. Smith said in his written testimony that Microsoft does not dispute that assessment while he said, "Microsoft is not able to make a definitive attribution based on the data we have seen."Smith told Congress that Microsoft notified 60 customers, mainly in the U.S., that they were compromised in connection to the attack. But he warned lawmakers that there are certainly more victims that have yet to be identified. A White House cybersecurity advisor estimated last week that nine government agencies and roughly 100 private companies were affected by the attack. Smith told  Congress that Microsoft identified further government and private sector victims outside the U.S. that were impacted.Smith proposed that in addition to requiring more disclosures from private companies, government should provide "faster and more comprehensive sharing" with the security community."A private sector disclosure obligation will foster greater visibility, which can in turn strengthen a national coordination strategy with the private sector which can increase responsiveness and agility," Smith said in his written remarks. "The government is in a unique position to facilitate a more comprehensive view and appropriate exchange of indicators of comprise and material facts about an incident."But Mandia, FireEye's CEO, told CNBC's Eamon Javers in an interview ahead of the hearing Tuesday that disclosure is "a damn complex issue.""The reason it's a complex issue is because of all the liabilities companies face when they go public about a disclosure," Mandia said. "They have shareholder lawsuits, they have lots of considerations of business impact. You also don't want to unnecessarily create a lot of fear, uncertainty and doubt."Intelligence Committee Chairman Mark Warner, D-Va., said in his opening remarks Tuesday that it may be worth considering greater disclosure requirements, even if it means creating liability protection for companies that follow those disclosure obligations.-- CNBC's Jessica Bursztynsky contributed to this report.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: How the massive SolarWinds hack went downVIDEO9:2609:26How the massive SolarWinds hack went downDigital Original

2021/02/12, Steve Ballmer, chairman of the Los Angeles Clippers and co-founder of Ballmer Group, speaks during the GeekWire Summit in Seattle, Washington, U.S., on Tuesday, Oct. 8, 2019. The summit draws attendees from across the globe to explore what's next in tech, business, science and society.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesFormer Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer said Thursday that he regretted not getting into cloud computing earlier.The remarks point to Amazon's success in building a business around renting computing and storage resources to companies, governments and schools.Amazon moved into the market well before Microsoft, IBM, Oracle and other information-technology providers, and has held on to its lead. Microsoft's Azure cloud delivered over $7 billion in revenue in the fourth quarter, according to two analysts' estimates, while Amazon's competing Web Services business generated $12.7 billion in revenue during the same period. The success of AWS has propelled its leader, Andy Jassy, into the top spot at Amazon, where he'll replace Jeff Bezos later this year."Azure -- I wish we probably started a year or so, two years earlier," Ballmer said in an audio conversation streamed live on the mobile app Clubhouse. "We started actually with platform as a service instead of infrastructure as a service. Probably we would do that a little bit differently. It cost us a little bit of time in the eventual battle, if you will, with AWS."Amazon's EC2 computing service and S3 storage service debuted in 2006, and Microsoft introduced its first Azure offerings in 2008. But Windows Azure, the most direct competitor to Amazon's core infrastructure offerings at the time, did not become available until 2010.In 2011 Satya Nadella took charge of the organization that included Azure, and in 2014 he replaced Ballmer as Microsoft's CEO. Since then, Nadella has emphasized the role of cloud in Microsoft's business. In 2017 Nadella has said he wished Microsoft had started earlier in cloud, and last year he gave Ballmer credit for supporting the company's cloud effort."You see it all coming to fruition," Ballmer said on Thursday. "Because it was a set of pain points that may not have been acknowledged as that, but then you stay patient with it."Ballmer also said Microsoft should have built phones sooner if it was going to be compete in that market. In 2015 the company wrote down $7.6 billion in goodwill and assets as it restructured its phone hardware unit after buying Nokia's devices business for $9.5 billion in April 2014, less than three months after Nadella had taken over. The deal came more than six years after Apple had released the initial iPhone. By late 2017, Microsoft's phone revenue was "immaterial," according to a presentation to investors.Ballmer joined the discussion alongside Sriram Krishnan, a general partner at venture-capital firm Andreessen Horowitz and former Microsoft program manager, and Steven Sinofsky, an Andreessen board partner who was a top executive at Microsoft under Ballmer. The firm announced an investment in Clubhouse last month following appearances from founders Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz and an increase in users with diverse backgrounds. The app is currently only available on Apple's iOS devices.WATCH: Former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on how Big Tech should react to House antitrust reportVIDEO3:2203:22Former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on how Big Tech should react to House antitrust reportSquawk Box

2021/02/23, Microsoft boss Satya Nadella speaking at the DLD (Digital-Life-Design) conference in Munich, Germany, 16 Janaury 2017. Guests at the 3-day conference discussed trends and developments in digitalisation.Tobias Hase | picture alliance | Getty ImagesThe Microsoft-owned LinkedIn business social network ran into technical issues during U.S. business hours on Tuesday, leading people to post about their troubles accessing the LinkedIn website and app.During the coronavirus pandemic, online services that enable communication, such as Microsoft Teams, Slack and Zoom, have experienced occasional outages. LinkedIn doesn't play that role, but it does serve a key role for recruiters, jobseekers and salespeople, and marketers rely on it to display advertisements to users.The service has also become a more popular place to learn during the pandemic. The number of hours spent on the LinkedIn Learning service doubled year over year in the fourth quarter, Microsoft's CEO, Satya Nadella, told analysts on a conference call last month.LinkedIn first started telling people in tweets that it was working to resolve issues at around 2 p.m. Eastern time. Shortly after that confirmed the degraded experience on mobile devices and its website on desktop computers in a tweet. The service began to recover for certain users just before 3 p.m. Eastern time, and at 4:21 p.m. Eastern time LinkedIn said in a tweet that it was "back on track."The downtime resulted from a configuration change in internal systems, a LinkedIn representative told CNBC.Some people attempting to access the LinkedIn website during the downtime encountered an error message along with a string of random letters and numbers — a different type of error message from the one people have run into on Amazon that has been accompanied by photos of dogs. A different message some users saw in attempts to visit LinkedIn's website said that "the server does not have a DNS entry."Microsoft acquired LinkedIn for $27 billion in 2016. Nadella said in January that LinkedIn had almost 740 million members. About 6% of the company's revenue comes from LinkedIn.WATCH: Here are the jobs that are disappearing and booming because of Covid-19VIDEO6:0006:00Here are the jobs that are disappearing and booming because of Covid-19Power Lunch

2021/03/08, A delivery truck driver unloads Coca-Cola Co. soft drinks in Lawrenceburg, Kentucky, U.S., on Monday, Feb. 10, 2020.Luke Sharrett | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Monday:

2021/02/03, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella (R) Chief Executive Officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks as Brad Smith, President and Chief Legal Officer, looks on at the Microsoft Annual Shareholders Meeting in Bellevue, Washington on November 30, 2016.Jason Redmond | AFP | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said Wednesday it would never threaten to leave Australia after Google suggested it could pull its widely used search engine from the country.Google made the threat last month after the Australian government proposed a new law that would force the tech giant to pay news publishers for the right to link to their content."One thing is clear: while other tech companies may sometimes threaten to leave Australia, Microsoft will never make such a threat," said Brad Smith, Microsoft's president, in a statement.  "We are committed to supporting the country's national security and economic success."Google did not immediately respond to a CNBC request for comment.Microsoft is well placed to capitalize from any fallout between Google and Australia. Google currently dominates search in the country, boasting a 94.5% market share, according to web analytics firm StatCounter, while Microsoft's Bing holds just 3.6%.  Smith said that he and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella spoke with Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison last week, who recently told reporters that Australia "did not respond to threats."The tech veteran said Microsoft supports Australia's plan to make digital platforms like Google and Facebook pay for news, adding that it is "vital to the country's democracy.""Microsoft recognizes that the media sector and public interest journalism currently face many challenges from the digital era, including changing business models and evolving consumer preferences," said Smith."That is why Microsoft has long supported the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission's (ACCC) efforts to analyze these issues and propose world-first solutions," he said.Australia is on course to pass laws that would make tech giants negotiate payments with local publishers and broadcasters for content included in search results or news feeds. If they cannot strike a deal, a government-appointed arbitrator will decide the price.The proposed law in Australia is dubbed the news media bargaining code and it's targeted specifically at Google and Facebook. The pair derive a bigger chunk of their revenue from displaying digital ads alongside news stories than Microsoft does.Google has been lobbying hard against the code, calling it "unreasonable" and "unworkable."Mel Silva, managing director for Google Australia and New Zealand, told an Australian Senate committee last month: "Coupled with the unmanageable financial and operational risk if this version of the code were to become law, it would give us no real choice but to stop making Google Search available in Australia."But Smith said: "The code reasonably attempts to address the bargaining power imbalance between digital platforms and Australian news businesses.""It also recognizes the important role search plays, not only to consumers but to the thousands of Australian small businesses that rely on search and advertising technology to fund and support their organizations," he added. "While Microsoft is not subject to the legislation currently pending, we'd be willing to live by these rules if the government designates us."

2021/01/25, Microsoft Corporation chief executive Satya Nadella speaks during the VivaTech (Viva Technology) trade fair in Paris, on May 24, 2018.GERARD JULIEN | AFP | Getty ImagesMicrosoft will give investors a peek at the impact of selling new video game consoles when it reports third-quarter earnings on Tuesday. Analysts expect a narrower margin for the business segment that includes gaming, but for some long-term investors, that would be all right.

2021/01/25, In this articleMSGSMSFTVIDEO3:3503:35Microsoft gets 3 bullish calls ahead of earnings. What to watch nowTrading NationAnalysts have gone mad for Microsoft.Goldman Sachs, Evercore ISI and Morgan Stanley secured Microsoft's place in Wall Street's good graces last week, with Goldman initiating coverage of the stock as a buy, Evercore adding it to its tactical outperform list and Morgan Stanley calling it its top recovery pick.Microsoft currently does not have a single sell rating from the major analyst firms, according to FactSet.The technology giant's run does appear to have significant runway, two traders said Friday as the stock neared all-time highs."Microsoft is honestly one of the most consistent stocks out there," Danielle Shay, director of options at Simpler Trading, told CNBC's "Trading Nation.""If you look at the growth year over year, they're consistently beating earnings, they're consistently showing even more continued growth via their guidance, and for me, that's all the more reason to be long," she said.While Shay is long Microsoft's stock, those who aren't invested could get a chance to buy it after the company's earnings report on Tuesday afternoon, she said."When a stock is right up near an all-time high going into an earnings report and everyone is so bullish, we do typically see a little bit of a pullback on that report that will probably be a great buying opportunity," she said.Microsoft's technical setup does imply longer-term upside, said Craig Johnson, senior technical research analyst at Piper Sandler."You are making this really nice symmetrical triangle, and those kinds of symmetrical triangles are typically continuation patterns of prior moves," he said in the same "Trading Nation" interview, citing a chart.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwards"I look at this and I could see the stock move up toward about 255," Johnson said.Microsoft shares closed at $225.95 on Friday. Futures trading on Monday implied a roughly $229 opening price."This has been a very consistent stock," Johnson said, doubling down on Shay's comments. "They've only missed four quarterly reports going all the way back to 2010. I suspect this is probably going to be another decent report for them. ... I like what I see. I'd still be a buyer of this stock. Even though it's breaking out near the highs, again, I'd still be a buyer of this stock here on this breakout."One recent earnings report might forecast good things for Microsoft, Shay said."I would actually point towards Netflix," she said. "Netflix had a 2x move, twice the expected market maker move, and it was really the breakout on Netflix that caused Microsoft and Amazon ... to start to break out higher. So, I would actually say that the move in Netflix was a little bit more critical."Disclosure: Shay owns shares of Microsoft. Piper Sandler is a registered market maker for Amazon.Correction: This story has been revised to correct that Microsoft's closing price on Friday was $225.95.Disclaimer

2021/01/22, In this articleMSFTMicrosoft president Brad Smith takes part in a roundtable discussion with US President Donald Trump and industry executives on reopening the country, in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington, DC on May 29, 2020.Mandel Ngan | AFP | Getty ImagesA top Microsoft executive defended the company's approach to supporting political campaigns in a meeting with employees on Thursday, according to a transcript of the meeting that CNBC reviewed.Microsoft President and legal chief Brad Smith said Microsoft is evaluating options for the Microsoft Political Action Committee (MSPAC), which employees criticized because it helped finance the campaigns of Congress members who supported Donald Trump's unfounded claims of fraud in the 2020 presidential election.Microsoft employees in the U.S. can give some of their income to the MSPAC, but have no direct say in which candidates it donates to. On Jan. 11 the company said it was putting donations on hold after the Jan. 6 insurrection attempt, when rioters flooded into the U.S. Capitol during the Electoral College vote count that formalized Joe Biden's win. The MSPAC had donated to several Republican members of Congress who tried to delay the formal Electoral College vote count, despite the complete lack of evidence of widespread voting fraud.Several other companies, including Amazon, Facebook and Google, also temporarily stopped political contributions after the events.On Jan. 13 one Microsoft employee, Carmen Crincoli, called for the company to stop supporting members of Congress who voted against the Electoral College results, and to stop giving money directly to elected officials and candidates. He said if the company couldn't do those things, it should close down MSPAC and ask that employees get involved with politics individually.Smith, who articulates Microsoft's position on political topics, addressed the complaints."The questions that are being considered are exactly I think what you would expect. Should the PAC suspend donations to the members who voted against the Electoral College? If so, for how long?" Smith said to employees on Thursday.But he also gave an frank explanation of why the MSPAC was important to Microsoft's interests:"I can tell you it plays an important role. Not because the checks are big, but because the way the political process works. Politicians in the United States have events, they have weekend retreats, you have to write a check and then you're invited and participate. So if you work in the government affairs team in the United States, you spend your weekends going to these events; you spend your evenings going to these dinners, and the reason you go is because the PAC writes a check."But out of that ongoing effort a relationship evolves and emerges and solidifies, and I can tell you as somebody who sometimes is picking up the phone, I'm sometimes calling members and asking for their help on green cards, or on visa issues, or help to get an employee or family member who is outside the United States during Covid back into the country because of an immigration restriction."Or the issues around national security, or privacy, or procurement reform. Or the tax issues that our finance team manages. And I can tell you, there are times when I call people who I don't personally know, and somebody will say 'you know, your folks have always shown up for me at my events. And we have a good relationship. Let me see what I can do to help you.'"Microsoft declined to comment on Smith's remarks, which were published earlier by Maciej Cegłowski, who runs the social bookmarking website Pinboard.In 2020 hundreds of Facebook employees participated in a protest over the company's decision to maintain a posts from former President Donald Trump, and in 2018 Google employees protested a contract the company had to supply cloud services to the Pentagon, prompting the company to not renew the contract.WATCH: Microsoft and Green Bay Packers team up to invest in Black and Latinx entrepreneursVIDEO5:1205:12Microsoft and Green Bay Packers team up to invest in Black and Latinx entrepreneursSquawk BoxNominations are open for the 2021 CNBC Disruptor 50, a list of private start-ups using breakthrough technology to become the next generation of great public companies. Submit by Friday, Feb. 12, at 3 pm EST.

2021/01/19, VIDEO3:5203:52Microsoft invests in GM's Cruise to accelerate self-driving carsSquawk on the StreetMicrosoft has entered into a long-term strategic relationship with General Motors and Cruise, the automaker's majority-owned autonomous car unit, to accelerate the commercialization of self-driving vehicles.As part of the partnership, the tech giant will join GM, Honda Motor and other institutional investors in a combined new equity investment of more than $2 billion in Cruise, bringing the post-money valuation of Cruise to $30 billion. The company did not breakdown the new funding by company.In its announcement Tuesday, the companies said Microsoft will become the preferred cloud provider for GM and Cruise. The companies said they will work collaboratively on software and hardware engineering, cloud computing capabilities, manufacturing and partner ecosystem.VIDEO2:1902:19GM Cruise CEO Dan Ammann on its autonomous rideshare projectSquawk Box"Advances in digital technology are redefining every aspect of our work and life, including how we move people and goods," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said in a statement. "As Cruise and GM's preferred cloud, we will apply the power of Azure to help them scale and make autonomous transportation mainstream."GM's stock closed up 9.8% at $54.84 a share, setting a new closing record after hitting an intraday high of $55.14 earlier Tuesday. The automaker's market cap is $78.5 billion. Microsoft's stock closed up $1.8% at $216.44 a share.Cruise will leverage Azure, Microsoft's cloud and edge computing platform, to commercialize its unique autonomous vehicle solutions at scale."Microsoft, as the gold standard in the trustworthy democratization of technology, will be a force multiplier for us as we commercialize our fleet of self-driving, all-electric, shared vehicles," Cruise CEO Dan Ammann said in a statement.VIDEO3:3103:31General Motors CEO on the company's electric vehicle futureSquawk AlleyGM said it will work with Microsoft as its "preferred public cloud provider to accelerate its digitization initiatives, including collaboration, storage, artificial intelligence and machine learning capabilities." In addition, the Detroit automaker will explore opportunities with Microsoft to streamline operations across its digital supply chains and bring new mobility services to customers faster.In a statement, GM CEO Mary Barra called Microsoft a "great addition" to assist the automaker with cloud computing as it spends $27 billion on electric and autonomous vehicles through 2025, including 30 new EVs.Cruise Origin driverless shuttleCruise

2021/02/01, The logos of Facebook and Google apps displayed on a tablet.Denis Charlet | AFP via Getty ImagesSoftware giant Microsoft is confident its search product Bing can fill the gap in Australia if Google pulls its search over required payments to media outlets, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Monday.Australia has introduced laws that would force internet giant Google and social media heavyweight Facebook to negotiate payments to domestic media outlets whose content links drive traffic to their platforms.However, the Big Tech firms have called the laws unworkable and said last month they would withdraw key services from Australia if the regulations went ahead. Those services include Google's search engine, which has 94% of the country's search market, according to industry data.Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella has since spoken with Morrison about the new rules, the tech company told Reuters, and on Monday, Morrison said the software company was ready to grow the presence of its search tool Bing, the distant No. 2 player."I can tell you, Microsoft's pretty confident, when I spoke to Satya," Morrison told reporters in Canberra, without giving further detail of the conversation."We just want the rules in the digital world to be the same that exist in the real world, in the physical world," Morrison added.A Microsoft spokeswoman confirmed the discussion took place but declined to comment, because the company was not directly involved in the laws."We recognise the importance of a vibrant media sector and public interest journalism in a democracy and we recognise the challenges the media sector has faced over many years through changing business models and consumer preferences," the spokeswoman said.A Google representative was not immediately available for comment.A day earlier, Australian treasurer Josh Frydenberg said Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg had requested a meeting over the law, and that they had talked, but that he would not back down on the change. 

2021/01/11, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during the unveiling of the Surface Pro 3 at an event in New York on May 20, 2014.Jin Lee | Bloomberg | GettyMicrosoft on Monday introduced the Surface Pro 7+ for Business, a version of its Surface Pro 7 convertible tablet from 2019 that's designed for commercial and education customers. It comes with a new Intel processor and cellular connectivity so you can get online when you don't have Wi-Fi. The base model costs $899, and LTE versions start at $1,149.Surface revenue growth accelerated in the second and third quarter as people rushed to buy PCs to continue school and work while staying home. Still, Microsoft's grip on the PC hardware market remains smaller than Apple, Dell, HP and Lenovo.The arrival of the PC shows Microsoft is experimenting further with its Surface lineup, using a plus sign to distinguish the product, as competing computer maker Apple has done, for the first time.The current Surface concept debuted in 2012, under former CEO Steve Ballmer. Satya Nadella replaced Ballmer as CEO in 2014 and over time reduced Microsoft's focus on consumers, such as exiting the e-book and music streaming markets. Now there's a Surface model that's just for business users.Normally, each fall Microsoft comes out with a new Surface Pro, but this fall, as the coronavirus pandemic impacted supply chains for gadgets like the iPhone 12 and Microsoft's Xbox Series X, autumn came and went without a new Surface Pro 8. A spokesperson declined to comment on Microsoft's roadmap.Microsoft's Surface Pro 7+ for Business does not come with an attachable keyboard; that accessory is sold separately.MicrosoftAnd yet, the Surface Pro 7+ for Business looks almost exactly like the Surface Pro variants of past years. That's intentional."We made a commitment to commercial customers on continuity of form factor," said Robin Seiler, a Microsoft corporate vice president. Surface Pro owners have told the company that design changes such as even moving a microphone can cause complexity, Seiler said.Seiler wouldn't say whether the new tablet will launch for consumers.The device offers up to a terabyte of storage, along with up to 32GB of RAM, a supply of memory that can also be found on the premium Surface Book 3. The Surface Pro 7+ for Business also includes a removable solid-state drive, a feature that first arrived on the Surface Pro X in 2019.Microsoft says the battery lasts as long as 15 hours, putting it on par with the Surface Pro X convertible tablet that relies on an Arm-based chip. The standard Surface Pro 7 comes with up to 10.5 hours of battery life.WATCH: Teams will be the real driver for MicrosoftVIDEO6:2206:22Teams will be the real driver for MicrosoftFast Money

2021/01/11, In this articleGOOGLMSFTSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during the Microsoft Developers Build Conference in Seattle, Washington, U.S., on Monday, May 7, 2018. The Build conference, marking its second consecutive year in Seattle, is expected to put emphasis on the company's cloud technologies and the artificial intelligence features within those services.Grant Hindsley | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft announced Monday it will contribute cloud-based data storage and computing power to Terra, a software project enabling industry and academic researchers to collaborate on large-scale analysis of health information.Verily, the life sciences company operating under Google parent company Alphabet, co-developed Terra and has been using it for the past three years. The other partner in Terra is the Broad Institute, a nonprofit health research institution that Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology established in 2004.The service has run on Google's cloud infrastructure. Now, the groups will also deploy Terra on Microsoft's Azure cloud.The move in an example of Google Cloud's struggles to gain traction against its larger cloud competitors, as well as Microsoft's success enlisting a broad range of Azure partners across industries. In 2019, the public cloud-services market grew 37% from the prior year, with Microsoft holding about 18% and Amazon, the biggest player, controlling 45%, according to estimates from technology industry research company Gartner. Google had 5% of the market. More recent figures are not available."I think there are several aspects of Azure that are very compelling," said Anthony Philippakis, Broad Institute's chief data officer. "When we look at how trusted they are across the life-sciences ecosystem, it's quite amazing. Almost every health-care system runs on Microsoft products."Bringing Terra to Azure could lead to significant adoption of the software, he said. Microsoft has more than 168,000 partners in health care and life sciences, said Dr/ Greg Moore, a Microsoft corporate vice president who previously worked on health care in Google's cloud division. As of 2019, 95% of Microsoft's commercial revenue came from partners, according to the company.Microsoft's decision to contribute to Terra alongside the Broad Institute and Verily comes less than a year after it introduced a Cloud for Health Care bundle including Azure and the Teams communication app. Health care represents a sector where Microsoft can increase its revenue and profit, RBC analysts wrote in a November report.The appearance of the coronavirus "has made us more aware than ever" how critical it is for researchers from various organizations to collaborate, rather than relying on narrower data sets and computing resources that are kept on site, said Clare Bernard, a senior director at the Broad Institute.Philippakis would not specify whether the software could become available on Amazon Web Services."Any decisions about incorporating future clouds will be made jointly between Broad, Verily and Microsoft," he said.WATCH: Alphabet's life sciences arm Verily teams up with big pharma to modernize clinical trialsVIDEO1:1501:15Alphabet's Verily teams with big pharmaSquawk Alley

2021/01/01, Dado Ruvic | ReutersThe hacking group behind the SolarWinds compromise was able to break into Microsoft and access some of its source code, Microsoft said on Thursday, something experts said sent a worrying signal about the spies' ambition.Source code — the underlying set of instructions that run a piece of software or operating system— is typically among a technology company's most closely guarded secrets and Microsoft has historically been particularly careful about protecting it.It is not clear how much or what parts of Microsoft's source code repositories the hackers were able to access, but the disclosure suggests that the hackers who used software company SolarWinds as a springboard to break into sensitive U.S. government networks also had an interest in discovering the inner workings of Microsoft products as well.Microsoft had already disclosed that like other firms it found malicious versions of SolarWinds' software inside its network, but the source code disclosure — made in a blog post — is new. After Reuters reported it was breached two weeks ago, Microsoft said it had not "found any evidence of access to production services."Three people briefed on the matter said Microsoft had known for days that the source code had been accessed. A Microsoft spokesman said security employees had been working "around the clock" and that "when there is actionable information to share, they have published and shared it."The SolarWinds hack is among the most ambitious cyber operations ever disclosed, compromising at least half-a-dozen federal agencies and potentially thousands of companies and other institutions. U.S. and private sector investigators have spent the holidays combing through logs to try to understand whether their data has been stolen or modified.Modifying source code — which Microsoft said the hackers did not do — could have potentially disastrous consequences given the ubiquity of Microsoft products, which include the Office productivity suite and the Windows operating system. But experts said that even just being able to review the code could offer hackers insight that might help them subvert Microsoft products or services."The source code is the architectural blueprint of how the software is built," said Andrew Fife of Israel-based Cycode, a source code protection company."If you have the blueprint, it's far easier to engineer attacks."Matt Tait, an independent cybersecurity researcher, agreed that the source code could be used as a roadmap to help hack Microsoft products, but he also cautioned that elements of the company's source code were already widely shared - for example with foreign governments. He said he doubted that Microsoft had made the common mistake of leaving cryptographic keys or passwords in the code."It's not going to affect the security of their customers, at least not substantially," Tait said.Microsoft noted that it allows broad internal access to its code, and former employees agreed that it is more open than other companies.In its blog post, Microsoft said it had found no evidence of access "to production services or customer data.""The investigation, which is ongoing, has also found no indications that our systems were used to attack others," it said.Reuters reported a week ago that Microsoft-authorized resellers were hacked and their access to productivity programs inside targets leveraged in attempts to read email. Microsoft acknowledged some vendor access was misused but has not said how many resellers or customers may have been breached.There was no response to requests for comment from the FBI, which is investigating the hacking campaign, or from the Department of Homeland Security's Cybsersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.U.S. officials have attributed the SolarWinds hacking campaign to Russia, an allegation the Kremlin denies.Both Tait and Ronen Slavin, Cycode's chief technology officer, said a key unanswered question was which source code repositories were accessed. Microsoft has a huge range of products, from widely used Windows to lesser known software such as social networking app Yammer and the design app Sway.Slavin said he was worried by the possibility that the SolarWinds hackers were poring over Microsoft's source code as prelude to a much more ambitious offensive."To me the biggest question is, 'Was this recon for the next big operation?'" he said.VIDEO3:4403:44Why Microsoft is Morgan Stanley's top software pick for 2021Squawk Alley

2021/01/05, U.S. President Donald Trump listens to Microsoft President Brad Smith, left, speak during a roundtable discussion with industry executives on reopening the country, in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington on May 29, 2020.Mandel Ngan | AFP | Getty ImagesA handful of Microsoft employees spoke out on Twitter against the software company's campaign contributions after Brad Smith, Microsoft's president, said in a tweet Monday that the company is in favor of a peaceful transition of power to President-Elect Joe Biden.The tussle concerns the Microsoft Political Action Committee, known as MSPAC, through which employees can contribute money that goes to state and federal candidates and to other committees. MSPAC's first contributions on file with the U.S. Federal Election Commission date to 1988, two years after Microsoft's initial public offering. The group has long given to both Democrats and Republicans.The flare-up came days before the Jan. 6 hearing during which Congress will gather to approve the Electoral College outcome of the 2020 presidential election, in which Biden surpassed incumbent Donald Trump. Since the election, Trump has launched multiple unsuccessful attempts to challenge election results in several states where he lost. In a phone call Saturday, Trump pleaded with Georgia's secretary of state to "find" the president enough votes to overturn Biden's win in the state, according to recordings released after the call.Eleven Republican Senators have aligned with Trump and said they would attempt to delay the certification of votes on Wednesday, citing allegations of fraud and irregularities in the 2020 election for which they provided no evidence and which have been rejected repeatedly by courts around the country.On Monday, Smith signed a letter insisting that Congress accept the Electoral College results.One Microsoft employee, Jake Friedman, responded to Smith's call on Twitter by asking if Microsoft should stop giving to people who wish to get in the way of a smooth transition. Friedman published a screenshot showing details of a $2,000 donation to a committee backing Jim Jordan, a Republican U.S. representative from Ohio who sought and won reelection in November. In December Jordan told Fox News he was in favor of having "a real debate on Jan. 6."Microsoft employee Mike O'Neill thanked Friedman for the tweet on Tuesday and said he had requested a cancellation of future donations for MSPAC.Brandon Paddock, another employee at Microsoft, suggesting discontinuing MSPAC or blocking MSPAC contributions to people who get in the way of democratic principles, which Smith had mentioned in his tweet.Smith did not address the criticism."We weigh a number of factors in making political contribution decisions, and will consider this and other issues in making future contribution decisions," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Tuesday.This year MSPAC also contributed to PACs supporting campaigns of Republican Sens. Steve Daines of Montana, Cynthia Lummis of Wyoming and Roger Marshall of Kansas, FEC records show. All three senators agreed to oppose the Electoral College results.The question of how MSPAC contributions fit in with the ideals Microsoft espouses, such as ensuring privacy, came up in November, after journalist Judd Legum pointed to a $2,500 MSPAC contribution to a group supporting the reelection of Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. In June, Graham had introduced legislation that would help law enforcement agencies access encrypted data. Graham was reelected in November.Microsoft employees picked up on Legum's message.One of them, Justin Schoen, said he would reconsider his contribution to MSPAC."We recognize that to make progress on the issues that matter to our customers and to our business, we must engage with candidates and officeholders who hold a range of views," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC at the time. "Given the breadth of our policy agenda, it's unlikely we'll agree on every issue, but we've learned that engagement—even when individuals hold different positions—is an essential part of achieving progress."WATCH: Why Microsoft is Morgan Stanley's top software pick for 2021VIDEO3:4403:44Why Microsoft is Morgan Stanley's top software pick for 2021Squawk Alley

2021/01/11, Satya Nadella speaking at the 2016 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.David A. Grogan | CNBC Microsoft said Monday it has put political contributions on hold after the storming of the Capitol in Washington last week as Congress was in the process of confirming the Electoral College results for the 2020 presidential election.The change at one of the most valuable public companies in the world comes after some employees objected to the contributions to people whose values don't always go along with those that the company espouses. Facebook also announced on Monday a plan to cease political contributions for the moment, and over the weekend JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs announced six-month suspensions.Employees are able to allocate some of their income to the Microsoft Political Action Committee, which is then disbursed based on input from a steering committee, according to Microsoft's website."Microsoft's political action committee decided last Friday that it will not make any political donations until after it assesses the implications of last week's events," the company said in a statement. "The PAC regularly pauses its donations in the first quarter of a new Congress, but it will take additional steps this year to consider these recent events and consult with employees."Microsoft also temporarily paused contributions from its MSPAC in 2019 after employees' protests.Data from the Federal Election Commission shows that MSPAC contributed money to Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri when he ran for attorney general of that state in 2016 and to GOP Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas in 2018. Both Cruz and Hawley opposed the confirmation of the Electoral College votes, which put Joe Biden ahead of incumbent Donald Trump.Last week before the siege, employees spoke out against certain MSPAC contributions, including one to Republican Sen. Lindsay Graham of South Carolina. Graham had introduced legislation meant to boost law enforcement access to encrypted data, and Microsoft has been in favor of increasing privacy for customers.-- CNBC's Lauren Feiner contributed to this report.Correction: Data from the Federal Election Commission shows that MSPAC contributed money to Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri when he ran for attorney general of that state in 2016. An earlier version mischaracterized the contribution.WATCH: The massive cyber attack that hit government agencies and Microsoft, explained: CNBC After HoursVIDEO11:5011:50The massive cyber attack that hit government agencies and Microsoft, explainedCNBC After Hours

2021/02/03, In this articleMSFTFBGOOGLSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., listens during an interview on The David Rubenstein Show in New York on Sept. 27, 2017.Christopher Goodney | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said on Wednesday it fully supported proposed new laws in Australia that would force internet giants Google and Facebook to pay domestic media outlets for their content."While Microsoft is not subject to the legislation currently pending, we'd be willing to live by these rules if the government designates us," the software firm said in a statement."The code reasonably attempts to address the bargaining power imbalance between digital platforms and Australian news businesses."Both Alphabet's Google and Facebook have called the laws unworkable and said last month they would withdraw some key services from Australia if the regulations went ahead.Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Monday Microsoft was ready to step in and expand its search product Bing in Australia if Google pulls its search engine, after he spoke with Microsoft Chief Executive Satya Nadella last week.Google's search engine has 94% of the country's search market, according to industry data.Microsoft in its statement said it will offer small firms a chance to transfer advertising business to Bing with no costs and that it would invest further in the product to ensure it is competitive.Google did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

2021/01/27, GameStop storeScott Mlyn | CNBCCheck out the companies making headlines in midday trading.GameStop — The gaming retailer's shares continued their rally, rising 134.8%. Retail investors have been driving the share price higher, pushing back against short sellers. Melvin Capital, which was short GameStop, closed out its position Tuesday afternoon, after facing losses.AMC Entertainment — The movie theater operator enjoyed a 301.2% boost. That's still a 200% increase from when it closed Tuesday. Trading volume has picked up sharply for AMC Entertainment – more than 689 million shares have exchanged hands today – as retail investors continue to push against short sellers.Bed Bath & Beyond — Shares of the home merchandise retailer climbed 43.5% past $50, up from their opening price of $42.98. The company has been a favorite of speculative traders, buoyed by small investors betting against short sellers. Bed Bath & Beyond's stock price has risen in spite of Baird downgrading the company on Wednesday to neutral from outperform.Microsoft — Shares rose 2% but ended the day up 0.25% following the tech giant's strong quarterly earnings. Microsoft revenue grew 17% on an annualized basis due to growth in its cloud business, up from 12% growth in the prior quarter, according to a statement. Microsoft reported earnings per share of $2.03 on revenue of $43.08 billion. Wall Street expected $1.64 per share on revenue of $40.18 billion, according to Refinitiv.Starbucks — The coffee chain saw its stock drop 6.5% in midday trading after it said Tuesday evening that its U.S. same-store sales fell 5% during its fiscal first quarter amid a surge of new Covid-19 cases. The company also announced that Chief Operating Officer Roz Brewer will be leaving the company at the end of February to become CEO of another publicly traded company.Advanced Micro Devices — AMD equity dipped 6.2% about halfway through the trading session after it reported on Tuesday profit results just above analyst expectations, with per-share earnings of 52 cents vs. the 47 cents expected. Notwithstanding the beats, Wednesday's trading left some analysts wondering if investors had hoped for even more from the Santa Clara, Calif.-based chipmaker.Boeing — Shares of the American plane maker dropped 4% Wednesday morning after the company reported a quarterly loss of $15.25 per share thanks in part to $8.3 billion in charges relating to the 737 Max and a delay in the 777-X program. CEO Dave Calhoun told CNBC on Wednesday that the slow rollout of Covid-19 vaccines will prolong a recovery in travel demand.F5 Networks — Shares of the application services company fell 3.5% despite beating Wall Street's estimates for its quarterly earnings. F5 reported earnings of $2.59 per share, compared to the $2.47 per share expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv. The company made $625 million in revenue, in line with expectations.Texas Instruments — Texas Instruments reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.64 per share, 30 cents above estimates, while the chip maker's revenue was also above estimates, according to Refintiv. The chipmaker's stock, however, fell 5%.Brinker International —  Shares of the restaurant company shed 11.7% after Brinker reported results for its fiscal second quarter. The company reported 35 cents in adjusted earnings per share on $761 million in revenue, slightly topping consensus estimates from Refinitiv on both counts. Some analysts pointed out in client notes that the earnings number was boosted by a tax benefit. Brinker said 18% of its Chili's locations and 31% of its Maggiano's locations are still closed due to the pandemic.Anthem — Shares of Anthem fell 7.2% despite beating Wall Street expectations on the top and bottom lines in its fourth quarter report. The insurance company reported $2.54 in earnings per share on $31.82 billion in revenue. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv had penciled in $2.52 per share and $30.78 billion of revenue. Guidance for earnings in 2021 were lower than expected, however, according to FactSet.— with reporting from CNBC's Thomas Franck, Jesse Pound and Darla Mercado.

2021/02/05, In this articleNVDAJen-Hsun Huang, president and chief executive officer of Nvidia Corp., speaks during the company's event at Mobile World Congress Americas in Los Angeles, California, U.S., on Monday, Oct. 21, 2019.Patrick T. Fallon | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesLONDON — Microsoft-backed Graphcore has objected to Nvidia's $40 billion acquisition of Arm Holdings, according to a key member of the British chipmaker's early development.Hermann Hauser told CNBC that Graphcore has opposed the deal in a "major submission" to the U.K.'s Competition and Markets Authority."If Nvidia can merge the Arm and Nvidia designs in the same software then that locks out companies like Graphcore from entering the seller market and entering a close relationship with Arm," said Hauser, who is an investor in Graphcore through his venture capital firm Amadeus Capital.A spokesperson for Nvidia, which is planning to buy Arm from Japanese tech giant SoftBank, described the deal as "pro-competitive" on Wednesday. Arm did not immediately respond to a CNBC request for comment.Graphcore and the CMA declined to comment. However, Graphcore CEO Nigel Toon told CNBC in December that Graphcore views the deal as anti-competitive. "It risks closing down or limiting other companies' access to leading edge CPU processor designs which are so important across the technology world, from data centers, to mobile, to cars and in embedded devices of every kind," he said.VIDEO2:0002:00Arm CEO says we can overcome internal divisions to allow Nvidia to complete takeoverSquawk Box EuropeArm was spun out of an early computing company called Acorn Computers, which Hauser co-founded in Cambridge, U.K., in 1978. Hauser was instrumental in the development of the first Arm processor, which was originally developed as part of Acorn.Arm licenses its chip designs to over 500 firms around the world and Hauser calls it the "Switzerland of the semiconductor industry" because it is very "even-handed" in the way that it deals with its licensees. Arm's energy-efficient chip architectures are used in 95% of the world's smartphones and 95% of the chips designed in China. Hauser is concerned that Nvidia will destroy Arm's business model by closing off access to the company's chip designs. A spokesperson for Nvidia insisted that the company will maintain Arm's open license model. "Arm CPUs (central processing units) will continue to work with all peripherals and accelerators, just as they do now, and customers will be able to integrate Arm designs with their own accelerators, just as they can today," they said. "We're confident that regulators will see the benefits to the entire tech ecosystem."Hauser claimed Nvidia isn't being honest regarding its promises to keep Arm's business model. An Nvidia spokesperson said: "We are discussing our plans with the U.K. government, and we are very happy to put legally binding agreements behind all our commitments."Hauser, a Cambridge-based entrepreneur turned investor — who spoke to CNBC from his farm in New Zealand via Zoom this week — has publicly criticized the deal ever since it was announced last September, calling it a disaster for Arm's home city of Cambridge, as well as the U.K. and Europe."If you think about the situation Nvidia is in, Nvidia is the one company that would profit from spending $40 billion on destroying a company," said Hauser, who no longer has any shares in Arm.When announcing the acquisition, Nvidia and Arm said the deal will create the world's "premier computing company for the age of AI." The duo have pledged to keep Arm in Cambridge and invest heavily in the business."This combination has tremendous benefits for both companies, our customers, and the industry," said Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang when the deal was announced.Widespread oppositionGraphcore isn't the only tech firm that has objected to the transaction. Local chipmakers in China including Huawei have urged Beijing to try to block the deal over fears that they could be at a disadvantage if Arm ends up in the hands of a U.S. company.The deal is now being investigated by regulators around the world. The EU and the U.K. are set to open "in-depth competition investigations" into the deal, according to a report from The Financial Times on Thursday.VIDEO3:0803:08China's 'biggest nightmare' may grow from Nvidia's Arm deal: CLSASquawk Box AsiaTwo tech investors told CNBC last October that they think the deal will be derailed by regulators and Hauser believes the chance of the deal being blocked is now higher than 50%.Graphcore was founded in June 2016 in Bristol, England, by Toon and Simon Knowles, who sold their previous chip company, Icera, to Nvidia for $435 million in 2011. The pair formed the initial idea for Graphcore in a small pub called the Marlborough Tavern in Bath in January 2012.Since it was founded, Graphcore has raised $750 million for its new processors which are designed to power artificial intelligence software. The company calls them intelligence processing units, or IPUs.Investors include the likes of Microsoft and BMW iVentures, as well as venture firms like London's Atomico and Silicon Valley's Sequoia, which has also backed Nvidia.In November, Sequoia partner Matt Miller told CNBC: "I don't think that you have to take on Nvidia because the market is so huge. Taking on Nvidia is like this huge task. It's a huge company with billions of revenue and incredible teams doing all sorts of wonderful things."He added: "I think that what Graphcore has the opportunity to do is be a very strong player in the AI microprocessor market. It continues to have great progress with many of the cloud providers, and many people want to be diversified. They don't want to be all in with one chip."Correction: This story has been updated to accurately reflect Hermann Hauser's relationship with Arm.

2021/01/22, Tourists at Disney town on May 05, 2020 in Shanghai, China.Hu Chengwei | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2020/12/18, In this articleINTCMSFTSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during the company's annual shareholders meeting in Bellevue, Washington, on Nov. 29, 2017.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesIntel dropped 6.3% on Friday following a Bloomberg report that Microsoft plans to design its own chips, possibly for both its Surface PCs as well as servers.Intel has famously had a long-running partnership with Microsoft as the primary processor maker for Windows PCs."Because silicon is a foundational building block for technology, we're continuing to invest in our own capabilities in areas like design, manufacturing and tools, while also fostering and strengthening partnerships with a wide range of chip providers," Microsoft spokesperson Frank Shaw said in a statement.VIDEO0:2600:26Microsoft is designing its own chips for servers and surface PCsClosing BellThe report comes a month after Apple started selling PCs using its own M1 processor, instead of Intel chips. The Microsoft chips are reportedly based on technology from Arm, which Nvidia is in the process of acquiring from Softbank.Apple's chips for its iPhones and Amazon's server chips are also based on Arm's instruction set, which is distinct from the x86 technology Intel primarily uses. Microsoft is more likely to use its chips for servers than its Surface PCs, according to Bloomberg.Earlier this month, a senior Microsoft executive did not reject the idea that Microsoft would build its own "first party" chips at a conference."The partnerships that we have though in this realm, from the OpenAI efforts that we have to our relationship with Intel and Arm developments that we have certainly point to the need to have advanced capabilities here, whether we build it first party or have an ecosystem of third-party partners, it's sort of yet to be disclosed," Judson Althoff, executive vice president of worldwide commercial business at Microsoft, said during an appearance at the UBS Global, Technology, Media and Telecommunications conference on December 8.Windows currently runs on Arm-based PCs, usually with chips made by Qualcomm. Microsoft introduced the Surface RT tablet in 2012 that contained an Arm chip from Nvidia, although the device was discontinued in 2013. Last year it introduced the Surface Pro X containing a Qualcomm Arm chip, and it came out with an updated version of the device this year.Microsoft said in 2017 that it was working with Arm server makers to optimize silicon for use in its own data centers.Intel reported $9.85 billion in revenue from its group that sells PC chips in the quarter ending in September. Server chips are also a major business for Intel. In the quarter ending in September, Intel reported $5.91 billion in revenue for its Data Center Group that sells server chips.Intel has had challenges with manufacturing its chips in recent years. Intel controls its own chip factories, called "fabs," as compared to other chip designers, which contract with companies in Asia to manufacture chips to client specifications.The more transistors that a chipmaker can fit into the same space, the more efficient a chip is. Currently, Intel ships chips with 10-nanometer transistors, but dedicated foundries, like TSMC, are now making 5-nanometer chips, which are technically superior.Earlier this year, Intel CEO Bob Swan said that it was considering outsourcing its manufacturing, like what Apple does.Intel didn't immediately return a request for comment.—Jordan Novet contributed to this story.

2020/12/09, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during the Viva Technology conference in Paris, France, on Thursday, May 24, 2018. Viva Tech, a three-year-old event for startups, gathers global technology leaders and entrepreneurs as the French establishment unites behind a push for more tech investment in Paris.Marlene Awaad | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft has already picked up a gain on its investment in artificial-intelligence software maker C3.ai as C3 debuts on the New York Stock Exchange.The deal shows how serving as one of a handful of big providers of cloud infrastructure can open up financial opportunities.On Wednesday C3 stock started trading at $100 per share. That's up 138% from $42, where shares were initially priced. C3 said in an updated prospectus on Nov. 30 that Microsoft would buy $50 million worth of C3's shares, meaning that Microsoft picked up 1.19 million shares. The stock ended its first day of trading at $92.49 per share, up 120%.With C3, business users can build custom applications that run AI models without writing code, or they can use pre-made tools that are tailored for the needs of different industries, such as helping banks spend less time on loan applications or helping manufacturing companies with predictive maintenance.Microsoft rival Salesforce has made it a practice to buy shares in relevant tech companies that are on the verge of going public. It's made these deals, known as concurrent private investments, with companies like Dropbox, Zoom, and most recently with Snowflake. Microsoft is now employing that strategy, placing a bet on a company it began working more closely with in 2018.C3 and Microsoft said it would jointly market and sell C3's AI software running on Microsoft's Azure cloud. In October the two companies went further, saying they would collaborate with Adobe to sell smart customer-tracking software to businesses in a variety of industries.Despite its Microsoft relationship, C3 advertises in its prospectus that organizations can use its software on Amazon, Google or IBM's clouds or run the software in their own existing data centers.C3 underlined the point that its software was cloud-agnostic in its IPO filing, writing that it "will run on any cloud platform without modification, eliminating any additional effort and cost of refactoring the application if moving it to a different cloud vendor."C3 CEO Tom Siebel, who sold his customer-tracking software company Siebel Systems to Oracle for $6.1 billion in 2006, founded C3 in 2009. C3 said it had a $14.9 million net loss on $41.3 million in revenue in the quarter that ended on Oct. 31, with revenue increasing 6% year over year. More than 20% of its revenue comes from energy companies Baker Hughes and Engie.Microsoft agreed to hold on to the C3 shares for at least 365 days. Microsoft declined to comment on the investment.In 2017 Microsoft invested $45 million in health-care company Adaptive Technologies, long before Adaptive's 2019 Nasdaq debut. Adaptive has leaned heavily on Azure. In addition to receiving cloud revenue from Adaptive, Microsoft also won a slice of a company whose shares are five times more valuable now than what Microsoft initially paid. Adaptive did not respond to a request for comment on whether Microsoft remains an Adaptive investor.At the end of October Microsoft had $301 billion in assets on its balance sheet, more than 96% of companies in the S&P 500 index. Around 1% of those assets, or $3.1 billion, come in the form of equity investments. The value of Microsoft's equity holdings grew about 5% from the previous quarter, slightly underperforming the S&P over the same period.WATCH: Adaptive Biotech CEO says it's working to develop the best antibody treatment for Covid-19VIDEO3:4503:45Adaptive Biotech CEO says it’s working to develop the best antibody treatment for Covid-19Closing Bell

2020/12/17, Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, speaks with Herbert Diess, CEO of Volkswagen AG, (not pictured) at a "fireside chat" to the media about a joint project between the two companies called the Volkswagen Automotive Cloud on February 27, 2019 in Berlin, Germany.Sean Gallup | Getty ImagesMicrosoft was hacked in connection with the attack on SolarWinds' widely used management software, Reuters reported on Thursday.Like with the cyberattack of SolarWinds, hackers infiltrated Microsoft products and then went after others, Reuters said, citing people familiar with the matter. According to the story, it's not immediately clear how many Microsoft users were affected.It's a troubling look for Microsoft, which has been beefing up its own security offerings, including in its Office 365 productivity software suite. The stock fell about 0.7% after the report.Microsoft has taken steps to help secure its customers in the days since SolarWinds confirmed the attack, which was first reported by Reuters on Sunday.Several U.S. government agencies have been breached in the attack, which impacted updates to SolarWinds' Orion software. Microsoft counts U.S. government agencies, including the Department of Defense, as Office 365 customers. A page that has been removed from SolarWinds' website identified Microsoft as a SolarWinds customer."Like other SolarWinds customers, we have been actively looking for indicators of this actor and can confirm that we detected malicious SolarWinds binaries in our environment, which we isolated and removed," Frank Shaw, Microsoft's corporate vice president in charge of communications, said in a statement he posted on Twitter. "We have not found evidence of access to production services or customer data."Read Reuters' full report here.WATCH: Major government agencies get hackedVIDEO5:5505:55Major government agencies get hackedFast Money

2021/01/14, In this articleAAPLBrendan McDermid | ReutersLONDON — A digital Covid vaccination passport is being jointly developed by a group of health and technology companies who anticipate that governments, airlines and other firms will soon start asking people for proof that they have been inoculated.A coalition known as the Vaccination Credential Initiative — which includes Microsoft, Salesforce and Oracle, as well as U.S. health care non-profit Mayo Clinic — was announced on Thursday.The VCI said it wants to develop technology that enables individuals to obtain an encrypted digital copy of their immunization credentials that can be stored in a digital wallet of their choice, such as the Apple Wallet or Google Pay. It suggested that anyone without a smartphone could receive paper printed with QR codes containing verifiable credentials.VIDEO2:5002:50Tech and health firms launch Covid vaccine credential standardsClosing BellThe coalition said it will also try to develop new standards for confirming whether a person has or hasn't been inoculated against the virus. Previously, citizens have used vaccination booklets to keep track of their travel vaccines but authorities rarely ask to see them."The goal of the Vaccination Credential Initiative is to empower individuals with digital access to their vaccination records," said Paul Meyer, CEO of non-profit The Commons Project, which is a member of the coalition, in a statement.He added that the technology should allow people "to safely return to travel, work, school, and life, while protecting their data privacy."Bill Patterson, an executive vice president and general manager at enterprise software firm Salesforce, said his company wants to help organizations "customize all aspects of the vaccination management lifecycle and integrate closely with other coalition members' offerings, which will help us all get back to public life.""With a single platform to help deliver safe and continuous operations and deepen trust with customers and employees, this coalition will be crucial to support public health and wellbeing," Patterson added.Microsoft did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.Vaccine divides opinionWhile many people can't wait to protect themselves from the virus, some are adamant that they won't get the jab, leaving populations divided into those that have been vaccinated and those that haven't. In the U.K., one in five say they are unlikely to get the vaccine, according to YouGov research published in November, citing a variety of different reasons.Millions of people around the world still don't want to be vaccinated, according to opinion polls. Some fear needles, some believe in unsubstantiated conspiracy theories and some are worried about potential side effects. Others just don't think getting vaccinated is necessary and would rather risk catching Covid.As a result of the differing views, a debate could start to emerge in 2021. Should any restrictions be imposed on people who choose not to get vaccinated, given they can catch and spread the virus?It's a tricky subject but governments are already looking at introducing systems that would enable authorities, and possibly businesses, to tell if a person has had a Covid vaccine or not.In December it emerged that Los Angeles County plans to let Covid vaccine recipients store proof of immunization in the Apple Wallet on their iPhone, which can also store tickets and boarding passes in digital form. Officials say it will first be used to remind people to get their second shot of the vaccine but it could, eventually, be used to gain access to concert venues or airline flights.China has launched a health code app that shows whether a person is symptom-free in order to check into a hotel or use the subway. In Chile, citizens that have recovered from the coronavirus have been issued with "virus free" certificates.On Dec. 28, Spain's Health Minister Salvador Illa said the country will create a registry to show who has refused to be vaccinated and that the database could be shared across Europe.Elsewhere, the CEO of Delta Air Lines, Ed Bastian, said in April that immunity passports could be used to help fliers feel more confident in their personal safety while traveling.A spokesperson for Ryanair said "vaccination won't be a requirement when flying Ryanair" when CNBC asked if it would ever prevent non-vaccinated people from flying on its aircraft. British Airways, Qantas, and easyJet did not respond to CNBC's request for comment.Isra Black, a lecturer in law at the University of York, and Lisa Forsberg, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Oxford who researches medical ethics, told CNBC that it "isn't easy to say whether it would be ethically permissible for a state to impose restrictions" on people who refuse a jab.The academics said in a joint statement via email that the answer will depend on factors like vaccine supply, the level of vaccination in the population, the nature of the restrictions on vaccine refusers, and how the restrictions are operationalized."We might think that there are strong, albeit not necessarily decisive, reasons in favor of some limitation on regaining pre-pandemic freedoms for individuals who refuse vaccination for Covid-19, for example, on their freedom to gather," said Black and Forsberg. "There is the potential for unvaccinated individuals to contract a serious case of coronavirus, which we take would be bad for them, but could also negatively affect others, for example, if health resources have to be diverted away from non-Covid care."

2021/01/26, In this articleGMEMSFTSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during the company's annual shareholders meeting in Bellevue, Washington, on Nov. 29, 2017.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines after the bell:Microsoft — Shares of the software giant popped more than 5% in after-hours trading after the company reported fiscal second-quarter earnings and revenues well ahead of analyst expectations. While per-share earnings of $2.03 topped forecasts of $1.64, investors appeared especially pleased with Microsoft's sales figures, which included a 23% year-over-year climb in its Intelligent Cloud unit and a 17% revenue pop overall.Advanced Micro Devices — AMD equity whipsawed in extended trading, rising in excess of 1% before reversing lower. The volatility in the stock came after the company reported earnings results just above analyst expectations, with per-share earnings of 52 cents above the 47 cents expected. Revenue of $3.24 billion also edged out expectations for $3.03 billion. The trading reaction left some analysts wondering if investors had hoped for even more from the Santa Clara, Calif.-based chipmaker. As of the latest reading, the stock was down 2.2%.Texas Instruments — Trading in a similar fashion were shares of Texas Instruments, which fell about 1.5% after the closing bell despite a solid fourth-quarter income report. Fourth-quarter revenues of $4.08 billion topped analyst projections for $3.6 billion while profit also beat expectations. This quarter, TI projects a profit of $1.44 to $1.66 a share on $3.79 billion to $4.11 billion in revenue, compared with analysts' projected $1.34 a share and $3.6 billion in revenue.Starbucks — The coffee chain saw its stock lose value after it said that U.S. same-store sales fell 5% during its fiscal first quarter after a surge of new Covid-19 cases led to the imposition of more onerous restrictions on restaurants and other eateries. The company also said Chief Operating Officer Roz Brewer will be leaving Starbucks at the end of February to become CEO of another publicly traded company.GameStop — The price of GameStop equity continued to dumbfound many on Wall Street with a jump of more than 50% after the bell. The outsized move, thought to be further evidence of a multiday short squeeze, promises to add to a remarkable 127% week-to-date rally when regular trading resumes on Wednesday. Tesla CEO Elon Musk may have also impacted the stock's spike after he tweeted about GameStop from his Twitter account.

2021/01/11, VIDEO3:5103:51Chamber's Donohue on businesses halting political donations in response to riotClosing BellTech companies including Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft announced Monday they are pausing contributions from their political action committees in the wake of the invasion of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday by insurgents incited by President Donald Trump. Companies from other industries have taken a similar stand.Here are the tech and media companies that have announced plans to pause PACs so far.AmazonAmazon late Monday announced it will pause donations from its PAC to lawmakers who voted against the certification of the presidential election results."We intend to discuss our concerns directly with those Members we have previously supported and will evaluate their responses as we consider future PAC contributions," an Amazon spokeswoman said in a statement. Federal Election Commission data shows that Amazon's PAC also contributed to Cruz's senate campaign in 2017 and 2018. Some legislators that Amazon backs voted against the certification of the presidential election result, according to records from the FEC and the Center for Responsive Politics' OpenSecrets website.Facebook"Following last week's awful violence in D.C., we are pausing all of our PAC contributions for at least the current quarter, while we review our policies," a Facebook spokesman said in a statement. Facebook did not appear to donate to either candidate in the past few election cycles.Axios first reported Facebook's plans to halt political donations.GoogleGoogle also said it would halt contributions from its PAC in light of the recent events. "We have frozen all NetPAC political contributions while we review and reassess its policies following last week's deeply troubling events," a Google spokesperson said.Google's PAC donated to Cruz's Senate campaign in 2017 and 2018.MicrosoftMicrosoft said it had decided last Friday to assess "the implications of last week's events" before making additional contributions from its PAC. "The PAC regularly pauses its donations in the first quarter of a new Congress, but it will take additional steps this year to consider these recent events and consult with employees," Microsoft said in a statement.Federal Election Commission data shows Microsoft's PAC donated in 2018 to the senate campaign of Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, one of the lawmakers who sought to object to President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral votes, and the 2016 Missouri attorney general campaign for Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., who joined Cruz in the effort.AirbnbWhile Microsoft, Google and Facebook are taking a broad approach to halting contributions, others have been more targeted. Airbnb said on Monday its PAC will "withhold support from those who voted against the certification of the presidential election results." Airbnb did not appear to donate to either candidate in the past few election cycles.AT&TAn AT&T spokesperson similarly the company's PAC will "suspend contributions to members of Congress who voted to object to the certification of Electoral College votes last week." AT&T's PAC gave to Cruz and Hawley's Senate campaigns as recently as last year.Verizon"We will be suspending contributions to any member of Congress who voted in favor of objecting to the election results.," Verizon said on Monday. Verizon's PAC donated to Cruz's Senate campaign as recently as last year.T-MobileT-Mobile hasn't said it will pause giving yet but said would "reevaluate" its PAC contributions. T-Mobile's PAC gave to Cruz and Hawley's Senate campaigns as recently as last year.ComcastThe cable and media giant is suspending contributions to elected officials who voted against certifying the presidential election results. Comcast's PAC contributed to Cruz's Senate campaign in 2017 and 2018."The peaceful transition of power is a foundation of America's democracy," the company wrote in a statement. "Consistent with this view, we will suspend all of our political contributions to those elected officials who voted against certification of the electoral college votes, which will give us the opportunity to review our political giving policies and practices."Disclosure: Comcast owns NBCUniversal, the parent company of CNBC.VIDEO3:0103:01Social media platforms block Trump after violence on Capitol HillTech

2020/11/15, A customer carries away a PlayStation 5 console at an electronics store in Sydney on November 12, 2020, on the day of PS5 official launch.Saeed Khan | AFP | Getty ImagesMicrosoft and Sony both released new video game consoles this week: Microsoft has the $500 Xbox Series X and $300 Series S, while Sony has two models of PlayStation 5, starting at $400.The last generation of consoles released by both lasted about seven years. With the latest systems, Microsoft and Sony are employing different strategies to attract gamers and generate even more revenue from gamers.A lot is on the line.The pandemic has given people more free time to play games. Gamers could stay hooked for years to come, which means big business for both companies.Gaming represents 24% of Sony's revenue. It's 8% of Microsoft's revenue, but Microsoft is more widely held as the third most valuable public company, behind only Apple and Saudi Aramco, and any success in gaming can benefit many shareholders.What happened last timeIn 2013, when Microsoft introduced the Xbox One and Sony released the PlayStation 4, Sony shipped 4.2 million new consoles, ahead of Microsoft, which shipped 3.8 million, according to estimates from technology industry research company IDC.Sony had set the price of the PlayStation 4 at $400, $100 below the $500 price of the Xbox One. Microsoft spent time promoting the entertainment capabilities of the Xbox, rather than focusing more directly on gaming. At first, the Xbox One came with the Kinect, a device that let people control the Xbox with voice commands and motion gestures. It wasn't a major hit, and Microsoft wound up releasing a $400 Xbox package that left out the Kinect in 2014.In later years, PlayStation 4 owners got access to exclusive games unavailable on other systems, including "Uncharted 4," "Horizon Zero Dawn" and "Spider-Man." The Xbox One got a few exclusives of its own, including "Halo 5."Still, each year the PlayStation 4 outsold Xbox One, according to IDC.Microsoft has tweaked its gaming approach since the Xbox One launch. Phil Spencer, the executive vice president in charge of gaming at Microsoft, said in an interview with the Verge last year that console shipments, the usual measurement of success, were not as important as engagement, including the number of people are playing.The shift follows revolutions in other Microsoft products under Satya Nadella, who replaced Steve Ballmer as CEO in 2014. The company stopped being so insistent on defending Windows. It released versions of its Office apps for Android and iOS, and it brought the Teams productivity app in the Office suite to Linux, the open-source operating system. Linux became accessible in Windows. Microsoft started migrating Office customers to subscriptions, and it gave away Windows 10 for free.Microsoft's CEO Satya Nadella speaks to participants during the Viva Technologie show at Parc des Expositions Porte de Versailles on May 24, 2018, in Paris.Chesnot | Getty ImagesThe new Xbox Series X and S have no slate of exclusive new titles like last time. So how will Microsoft stand out?The answer is Xbox Game Pass, an online subscription service that gives customers a catalog of more than 100 games, spanning all three previous Xbox consoles, to download — all for as little as $10 a month. Microsoft plans to bolster the service with new titles over time, just as Netflix does with video.Microsoft's offering is broader than Sony's new PlayStation Plus Collection, a similar service with 20 PlayStation 4 games people can play if they subscribe to the PlayStation Plus online multiplayer service, which costs $5 per month.Game Pass subscribers who pay an additional $5 per month get access to a service for playing Xbox games on Android devices; the games are delivered over the internet from Microsoft data centers. (Microsoft wants to provide a similar service for iOS device, but says Apple's App Store policies have prevented it from doing so.)The mobile option represents an answer of sorts to the Nintendo Switch, which delivers powerful gameplay in a portable design. Sony's PlayStation Now cloud gaming service does not support mobile devices.Studio dealsMore games are coming.Microsoft's gaming wing has been on an acquisition spree, with 23 game-development studios, including those stemming from the $7.5 billion Zenimax acquisition Microsoft announced in September. It's up from 11 in 2018 and larger than Sony's 14-studio collection. Microsoft has approached game developers in Japan, the home country of Nintendo and Sony, Bloomberg reported earlier this week.Microsoft's 343 Industries studio was supposed to release the next episode in its popular "Halo" series of science-fiction shooting games this holiday season to go along with the new Xbox consoles, but in August the company announced the game would be delayed until 2021.In contrast, both the $500 PlayStation 5 and the $400 PlayStation 5 Digital Edition (which has no disc drive) can play exclusive games such as "Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales" and "Demon's Souls." The PS5 also boasts a software overhaul and major controller design.Without any of these features in the new Xboxes, people are looking for hardware improvements as a reason to go with Microsoft.They are there, but they might not be enough to topple Sony.What Microsoft cares about now"I don't see any technologies in this generation that provide an obvious bump to the content," said Seamus Blackley, the former Microsoft employee credited as the father of the Xbox, who first pushed Microsoft to take on Sony.Blackley has tried Microsoft's new gaming hardware, and he said he thought that Sony's PlayStation 5 will have the upper hand at least at first.IDC concurs with Blackley's expectation. Lewis Ward, IDC's research director for gaming, said he expects Sony to sell as many as 5 million PlayStation 5 consoles this year, and he sees Microsoft selling 3.8 million Xbox Series X and S consoles. (Microsoft will sell every console it makes this year and expects a record holiday in terms of gaming usage, Jerret West, chief marketing officer of Microsoft's Xbox business, told CNBC in an email. Tim Stuart, chief financial officer of Microsoft's Xbox business, told Jefferies analyst Brent Thill on Thursday that he expects supply to outstrip demand in the fourth quarter and the first quarter.)Investors are focusing less on Microsoft's console sales anyway. Last year the company introduced a new metric: Xbox content and services revenue growth, which includes subscriptions to Game Pass and the longstanding Xbox Live service for online play, as well as sales of popular games such as Minecraft for non-Microsoft devices. That figure has been higher than overall gaming revenue growth in each of the past four quarters.Moreover, higher console sales do not necessarily help Microsoft's finances. The more console revenue Microsoft ends up with in its current fiscal year, which ends June 30, the lower the company's total gross margin will be, Morgan Stanley analysts Keith Weiss and Josh Baer wrote in a note distributed to clients last month."I do think that Sony will probably come out of the gate more quickly with selling hardware, but I don't think that Microsoft cares," said Ben Throop, founder of Vermont game-development company Frame Interactive. He's worked on several PlayStation games, and he expects to buy a new PlayStation and a new Xbox — just not right away. He said Microsoft is more focused on racking up Game Pass subscribers than moving consoles, unlike Sony.West countered that Microsoft offers the most powerful console ever built, and claimed that it absolutely does care about selling consoles."But focusing solely on the console is an incomplete way to evaluate the gaming industry and how it will grow in the future," he wrote. "Developers that work with us can reach gamers across PC, console, and mobile through the cloud. And all the new players picking up their games have just as many options for how to play."WATCH: What happened to GameStop?VIDEO16:1516:15Why GameStop failedVideo Games

2020/12/29, In this articleMSFTAMZNAAPLVIDEO7:0707:07Apple, Amazon and Microsoft: Ride the wave or time to pivot?Trading NationRide the wave or run for the hills?That's how two traders approached Amazon, Apple and Microsoft on Monday as the broader market continued its march to record highs.The three tech giants' stocks are responsible for more than half of the S&P 500's gains this year, according to Reuters and S&P Dow Jones Indices.Newton Advisors' Mark Newton and BK Asset Management's Boris Schlossberg told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Monday that it wasn't yet time to sell."If there's any one message, it's that consolidation sometimes can be something that refreshes," said Newton, founder and president of his firm. "It doesn't necessarily mean that the stocks are rolling over."Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsPointing to a chart of Amazon, he noted that the shares have "started to kick back into gear," saying one of their recent breakouts paves the way for a run to $3,450 or $3,500 a share.Amazon was up nearly 1% to around $3,315.73 in early Tuesday trading."Of the larger names, this is one that I would own," Newton said. "I certainly would stick in the FAANG stocks."Fellow FAANG member Apple didn't look quite as "appealing" as Amazon, Newton said. FAANG is a widely used acronym for the stocks of Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet."This is a stock that I don't mind trimming into end of year as it approaches these all-time highs," he said. "This one for me is not as big of a risk-reward."Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsNewton's bottom line, however, was unwavering."Until you start to see meaningful weakness, it's still going to be right to stick with these stocks. It's just not enough to suggest that getting out of the group as a whole makes a whole lot of sense right now," he said. "Really, until the group violates September lows, one still wants to be in them."Schlossberg, who is managing director of FX strategy at BK Asset Management, said all three tech juggernauts "should continue to dominate in the near term.""In a digital economy, the companies that have economies of scale, they're all rewarded, and every one of these companies has huge economies of scale," Schlossberg said. "In fact, I think the single biggest business threat to Apple, Amazon and Microsoft is really from regulators, not competition."He predicted that a Biden administration's preoccupation with mitigating the Covid-19 crisis and ushering along an economic recovery would postpone near-term regulatory threats to the group."In the meantime, Apple has a new phone cycle coming up, Amazon continues to garner share in the retail space and Microsoft just completely dominates the corporate space," he said. "For me, I just don't think there's any reason for investors to abandon what's working. You'll have some minor fluctuations, but overall, as I said, the spoils go to the winner, and in this economy, it's a winner-takes-all type of a structure."Disclaimer

2020/12/16, Amazon.com urged a U.S. judge to toss out the Pentagon's $10 billion JEDI cloud computing contract award after the Defense Department said in September a court-ordered re-evaluation had determined Microsoft's proposal still represented the best value for the government.The company's Amazon Web Services (AWS) unit said in a redacted Oct. 23 court filing unsealed on Tuesday that the award to Microsoft must "be invalidated because it is the product of systematic bias, bad faith, and undue influence exerted by President Donald Trump to steer the award away from" the company. It called it a "flawed and politically corrupted decision."The White House declined to comment, referring questions to the Justice Department. The Pentagon did not immediately comment.Microsoft said in a statement Tuesday "career procurement officials at the DoD decided that given the superior technical advantages and overall value, we continued to offer the best solution."It added, "it is time we moved on and got this technology in the hands of those who urgently need it: the women and men who protect our nation."AWS said in a statement Tuesday that as a result of the Pentagon revision in September "the pricing differential swung substantially, with AWS now the lowest-priced bid by tens of millions of dollars."A judge in February granted Amazon's request to temporarily halt the deal from moving forward; that remains in place.The court is considering motions to dismiss Amazon's amended complaint that have been filed by the government and Microsoft. The motions have not been made public and it is not clear when the judge might rule.Amazon, which had been seen as a front-runner to win the contract, filed a lawsuit in November 2019 after the contract was awarded to Microsoft. Trump has publicly derided Amazon head Jeff Bezos and repeatedly criticized the company.Amazon's new filing said Trump and his administration "intensified a campaign of interference and retribution against those in DoD perceived as disloyal to the president or capable of reaching conclusions at odds with his personal interests."The company argued the latest Pentagon review was "riddled with errors even more egregious than those that plagued the initial award," and that the Pentagon "manipulated its evaluations to a degree that belies any facade of rationality."The Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure Cloud (JEDI) contract could reach as much as $10 billion and is part of a broader digital modernization of the Pentagon.Then-Defense Secretary Mark Esper said the Pentagon made its choice fairly. Trump fired Esper last month.

2020/11/29, From left, GitHub CEO Chris Wanstrath, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and future GitHub CEO Nat Friedman at GitHub headquarters in San Francisco.Source: MicrosoftIn 2018, Microsoft made one of its priciest acquisitions ever, spending $7.5 billion on code-sharing site GitHub. It wasn't the cleanest fit. GitHub is used by over 50 million developers who tend to be outspoken, including when it comes to things they dislike about Microsoft.The deal continues to pose unexpected challenges, like a recent spat with the Recording Industry Association of America. In October, the RIAA asked GitHub to take down youtube-dl, a piece of open-source software that enables people to download videos from YouTube and other online services.The software disappeared from the internet, and users objected.One GitHub user, on the site, described the incident as "a shame for GitHub" and said "that Microsoft acquisition was really a mistake." Another called for Microsoft to resign from the RIAA, an organization that consists primarily of record labels and musicians. The removal by GitHub so angered yet another user that the person responded by posting part of GitHub's own proprietary software on the area of the site where digital copyright takedown requests are reported.The code was adjusted by the person who maintained the project so that it was no longer in violation of the RIAA. The company then brought youtube-dl back online and announced a new process for handling similar claims.Like fellow tech giants Amazon, Apple and Google, Microsoft faces all sorts of challenges related to its bigness, whether from its many rivals, millions of customers, profit-hungry investors or politicians concerned about competition. GitHub, as a storehouse of open-source projects and a virtual lifeline for programmers, creates tension of a different sort.Some problems GitHub can solve by adhering to the demands of protesting users. Others are more sensitive, like the company's work with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.GitHub has refused to cut ties with ICE, leading employees to resign after the agency renewed its contract to use GitHub software. Key GitHub users published an open letter late last year insisting that GitHub end the contract, citing the agency's separation of children from their parents and other activities. Hundreds of GitHub's own workers signed an internal petition to have GitHub stop work with ICE last year, too, said two former employees who were not authorized to talk about internal affairs. GitHub did not respond to a request for comment.In addressing the ICE issue, GitHub expressed opposition to family separation. The company said it doesn't have a services agreement with the agency, provides no consulting work and "has no visibility into how this software is being used, other than presumably for software development and version control."Microsoft has faced criticism, separate from GitHub, for its work providing cloud services to ICE, even though the company said in 2018 that it was "dismayed" by the practice of family separation.For GitHub, the latest incident involving the video downloading tool has provided an opportunity for users to reignite the ICE controversy. Former GitHub engineer Zach Holman responded to an explanation provided by Nat Friedman, the company's CEO, by bringing up the past incident.Friedman's tweets often receive replies to the effect of "Drop ICE.""The whole thing permeates everything they do now," said Holman, who left GitHub in 2015 and now invests in start-ups. He said the easiest resolution would be to end the contract, which Friedman has described as "not financially material for our company."Earlier this year, GitHub was among the technology companies that showed support for the Black community following the killing in May of George Floyd while in police custody, and the nationwide protests that ensued.A few GitHub users suggested that the company could rename part of its service so that "master," a racially sensitive word, could be retired. The term referred to the primary area where developers store their code.GitHub announced a plan to do exactly that one week later, changing the name to "main." Even with good intentions, the company welcomed a fresh batch of comments about the ICE contract.Holman summed it up this way: "How do I reconcile your position with ICE and what you're saying about support for diversity in tech?"WATCH: The rise of open-source softwareVIDEO13:5013:50How open-source software took over the world

2020/10/22, In this articleMSFTPedestrians wearing protective masks walk past a Microsoft Technology Center in New York, on Wednesday, July 22, 2020.Jeenah Moon | Bloomberg via Getty ImagesLawyers who prosecuted Microsoft over alleged antitrust violations in the late 1990s saw some familiar tactics in the Justice Department's complaint against Google filed this week.But it's far from a carbon copy of the complaint, according to several lawyers involved in the Microsoft case interviewed by CNBC.The DOJ cited its landmark antitrust case against Microsoft on page five of its complaint against Google, which was filed Tuesday in the same federal district court that ruled favorably for the government. The suit is not the sprawling indictment of Google's search and advertising businesses that some had expected.But its argument does touch on various parts of its businesses, alleging Google cut off competitors from key distribution channels in part through exclusionary contracts, including its lucrative payments to Apple to be the default search engine on the iPhone and other Apple gadgets. As a result, the complaint alleges, Google has harmed competitors, advertisers and consumers who have been denied the additional choices and quality search services that might have existed with more competition.Google's top lawyer called the complaint "deeply flawed" in a blog post outlining the company's initial objections."What they're trying to do is fit the facts of Google into the theory of Microsoft," said Stephen Houck, who was the lead lawyer for the states during the Microsoft trial. "But the relevant facts I think are very different, almost 180 degrees different in many respects. So I think they're going to have a very difficult time proving this."Houck told CNBC's David Faber on Tuesday that he's consulted for Google over the past couple years but that his skepticism of the case's strength comes from his own perspective.A representative for the Justice Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Lawyers like Houck who knew the Microsoft case intimately say the DOJ's new lawsuit against Google diverges in key ways that could make it far from a rinse and repeat of the earlier trial.'Out of the Microsoft playbook'There's no question why the DOJ would seek to call back to the Microsoft case. Though a court of appeals threw out the trial court's decision to break up Microsoft and the case ended in a settlement, the appeals court also largely upheld key portions of the trial, ruling in a unanimous decision."This is about the strongest antitrust precedent you can get short of the Supreme Court," said Gary Reback, a lawyer who has been credited with helping to convince the DOJ to bring a case against Microsoft. In the years since, he has worked for clients fighting against Google.Reback's view of the case is more optimistic. He said the facts laid out by the DOJ seem possible to prove in court.The core of the Microsoft lawsuit centered around allegations that the tech giant had illegally maintained its monopoly power by tying its web browser, Internet Explorer, to its Windows operating system. According to the lawsuit, Microsoft would require PC manufacturers using its dominant Windows OS to pre-install its browser and prevent users from removing it, edging out competing browsers like Netscape. The appeals court upheld the ruling that Microsoft had violated antitrust law by maintaining its operating system monopoly through anti-competitive means.The case against Google similarly focuses on the ways it allegedly tied together parts of its services to maintain its monopoly in search. For example, the complaint alleges Google entered exclusionary contracts with phone manufacturers using a version of its Android operating system that required manufacturers to pre-install certain Google-owned apps."It's clearly sort of out of the Microsoft playbook," said Doug Melamed, a top official at the department's antitrust division when it filed suit against Microsoft. "It's conceptually very similar to the core of the Microsoft case."But the DOJ has, in some ways, benefited from the passage of time. Melamed said that several arguments "taken for granted today" were "hotly contested" at the time of the Microsoft trial, like the ability to have a monopoly in a market where consumers don't pay for the service, or the ripple effects of a digital network."In that respect, this is a much easier case than the Microsoft case," Melamed said.Where the case straysGovernment lawyers in the Microsoft case benefited from several things the Google case seems to lack on its surface — though it's important to note the complaint itself can still be amended or even consolidated with a potential separate case by a group of states still investigating the tech company.Here are some of the key differences they pointed to:Paper trailOne major benefit to the government's case in the Microsoft trial was the messy paper trail executives left behind. Internal emails and a long memo by then-CEO Bill Gates helped the government prove that Microsoft saw web browsers like Netscape as a threat to its dominance in the operating system market. They also helped show the lengths it'd go to maintain that dominance.Google learned from Microsoft's stumbles. Google's CEO and top lawyer told staff Tuesday after the government filed its lawsuit that they should keep their heads down while the case proceeds. The company has established compliance training for employees on how and when to discuss antitrust-related issues, according to a recent New York Times report, limiting receipts that could be subject to discovery."They had more inflammatory documents in Microsoft and that made it easier to persuade a fact-finder that they were up to no good," said Melamed. "Here, they found themselves kind of lamenting that Google had instructed people to be careful what they wrote down."DefaultsAnother challenge the government will face in proving its case is showing that Google's contracts guaranteeing its services a default position (like that for its search engine on Apple's iPhones) are anti-competitive. The case leans on the government's assertion that Google uses "anticompetitive and exclusionary distribution agreements" to lock up default spots for its search engine on various devices. As Google has pointed out, it's still fairly easy for users to switch defaults if they want to, making it more complicated to prove the allegedly anti-competitive effect."What [Microsoft was] trying to do was foreclose or exclude Netscape Navigator from all distribution mechanisms," Houck said, adding that Microsoft's methods were more coercive than Google's seem to be from the complaint. "And I don't see really any foreclosure or exclusion here. Being a default is a different thing."In 2020, it's also much easier to download alternative software than it was in the dial-up internet era, Houck said —a point Google itself was quick to make."If it's very easy to change [the default] and few users do, one possible explanation is that they don't change it because why would they change away from the best search engine?" Melamed said. "The government here is going to have to answer that question. They're going to have to show maybe that users don't change any defaults and so the stickiness of default can't be explained simply by product superiority."Who is being harmed?Also unlike the Microsoft case, several of the lawyers said, the person or entity being harmed by Google's actions is not as clear. The government was able to paint Netscape as a clear foil to Microsoft at the time and showed how Microsoft's allegedly exclusionary practices effectively cut it out of the market.The allegations against Google are not as neat. The DOJ alleges Google harms consumer and advertisers by reducing competition in search and therefore lowering the quality of available services. It's also harmed competitors themselves by raising costs and closing off distribution channels, according to the complaint. It names search competitors like Microsoft's Bing and DuckDuckGo.But Houck still assessed based on the initial complaint against Google, "there's no real apparent consumer harm."'Forward-looking'The Google complaint is "more forward-looking" than that against Microsoft, according to Harry First, who led the New York attorney general's antitrust bureau during part of the Microsoft trial and settlement.The Google complaint alleges the company is already eyeing the next distribution channel it can lock up. The complaint claims Google is positioning itself to control emerging search distribution channels like smart speakers and connected TVs and watches."Microsoft was brought at a time before servers had really been developed. So all the computing effort was really on huge mainframes or PCs," First said. "So the complaint didn't really address much of the future in Microsoft. This tries to do that."New Supreme Court rulingsTime has not entirely worked in the government's favor in this case. New Supreme Court rulings could potentially undermine the strength of the Microsoft precedent, First said.One well-known case, Ohio v. American Express, established that some markets can be defined as two-sided, such as consumers on one side and advertisers on the other in Google's case. Google could potentially argue that even if one side of its market is slightly disadvantaged (like by higher advertising rates), it's offset by the benefits to the other side (like free search services).Another case known as Trinko narrowed the grounds on which a monopoly case could be brought. It said that Verizon's alleged failure to share its network with AT&T, as required by telecommunications law, did not constitute a valid claim under antitrust law."I think they'll be lucky to be able to defend Microsoft," First said.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: D.O.J.'s Google lawsuit is trying to promote competition instead of restructuring product: Tim WuVIDEO4:2704:27D.O.J.'s Google lawsuit is trying to promote competition instead of restructuring product: Tim WuSquawk Alley

2020/10/20, In this articleMSFTCRMMarc Benioff, chairman and chief executive officer of Salesforce.com, left, and Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., center, watch a presentation during Salesforce's Dreamforce conference in San Francisco on Sept. 16, 2015.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft might finally be ready to compete hard in Salesforce's core business of customer relationship management (CRM) software, which helps businesses track sales and support.Microsoft is directing its salespeople to get existing customers to adopt its Dynamics products, a major Microsoft partner indicated to analysts at RBC Capital Markets. RBC didn't name the partner, but these players typically re-sell Microsoft software, often in conjunction with consulting services, hardware, or other software.The push could lift Microsoft's Commercial Cloud, a group of cloud products that now represents over one-third of the company's total revenue. It could also make things harder for Salesforce, despite the fact that Microsoft has had little luck displacing the dominant CRM player after nearly 20 years of efforts."I think what's happened is it's a new priority," RBC's Alex Zukin told CNBC in an interview on Thursday. He and his colleagues have the equivalent of a buy rating on Microsoft stock.Zukin said the unnamed Microsoft partner told the analysts that Microsoft's senior leadership must approve any enterprise license renewal that leaves out Dynamics, which includes CRM and other business management software, and PowerApps, a tool that non-technical people can use to build applications. Microsoft promotes PowerApps, a product introduced in 2015, in a bundle called the Power Platform. A person who works with Microsoft customers told CNBC he has seen Microsoft aggressively promote Dynamics and PowerApps into as many enterprise agreements as possible. This person declined to be named discussing confidential customer information.Microsoft sales leaders want to make sure their account teams are talking with clients about the cloud-based Dynamics 365 cloud service and the Power Platform, including at the time of renewal. This effort became more pronounced when the company's current fiscal year began in July, according to a person close to the company."Microsoft engages executives throughout the agreement renewal process and we routinely check in with salespeople to make sure they're exploring Dynamics 365 and Power Platform prior to each deal's completion," Microsoft spokesman Frank Shaw told CNBC in an email on Tuesday. "This is about being efficient with customer engagement and ensuring awareness of the growing interest we see in these offerings, without introducing any change to the structure of customer agreements."Microsoft doesn't disclose the size of Power Platform, but the company does give some visibility into Dynamics 365. In the second quarter it grew 38% from the year-ago period, faster than most other Microsoft products.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsIn the 2020 fiscal year, which ended on June 30, total Dynamics revenue exceeded $3 billion, with more than 60% — an implied $1.8 billion or more — coming from Dynamics 365, Microsoft's finance chief, Amy Hood, told analysts on a conference call in July. In the 2000s, current CEO Satya Nadella played a key role in the development of Dynamics. Since becoming CEO in 2014, though, he hasn't made Dynamics a major focus, doing much more to promote the Azure cloud. (During the call in July he mentioned Azure 22 times and Dynamics 10 times.) Meanwhile, Salesforce has taken more of the market for customer relationship management software.Earlier this month, Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff published a tweet containing a chart that shows Salesforce's expansion in the CRM market, based on data from research company IDC. The data shows in 2019 Salesforce controlled 18.4% of the market in 2019, while Microsoft held 3.7%. An IDC spokesperson did not have more recent data available.The two companies have a history of strident competition interspersed with moments of cooperation. Microsoft looked at buying Salesforce in 2015 but a disagreement on price got in the way of a deal. In 2016 Microsoft beat Salesforce in an attempt to buy LinkedIn, paying $27 billion in its largest acquisition to date. But Salesforce has also integrated with Microsoft's Office 365, and last year Salesforce said it would use Azure.When Microsoft gets companies to use Azure and modern Office components such as the cloud-only Teams communication app, it's now able to effectively move backward into selling them on Dynamics, Zukin said.He said that if Microsoft truly desires to dominate the market, it could just buy Salesforce, but he doesn't think Microsoft would want to put itself under the regulatory spotlight alongside other large technology companies such as Amazon and Google.Microsoft reports third-quarter earnings on Oct. 27.WATCH: Bill Gates on regulating Big Tech: 'We're in uncharted territory'VIDEO2:3102:31Bill Gates on regulating Big Tech: 'We're in uncharted territory'Squawk Box

2020/10/27, In this articleMSFTVIDEO3:3903:39Microsoft beats on the top and bottom line with better-than-expected operating incomeClosing BellMicrosoft shares moved 2% lower in extended trading on Tuesday after the company reported quarterly revenue guidance that fell short of analysts' expectations. Fiscal first-quarter earnings exceeded estimates, though.Here's how the company did:Earnings: $1.82 per share, adjusted, vs. $1.54 per share as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.Revenue: $37.15 billion, vs. $35.72 billion as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.With respect to guidance, Microsoft expects $39.5 billion to $40.4 billion in fiscal second-quarter revenue, Amy Hood, the company's chief financial officer, told analysts on a conference call. The middle of that range, at $39.95 billion, implies 8% annualized growth, and it's below the Refinitiv consensus estimate of $40.43 billion. Hood suggested that softer business demand would continue to cut into Windows licensing revenue.In the fiscal first quarter, Microsoft revenue grew 12% on an annualized basis, down from 13% growth in the prior quarter, according to a statement.Revenue for commercial PCs cratered 22% months after support for Windows 7 ended and the coronavirus pandemic took hold; the category had surged last year, making outperformance this year more difficult.But one of the fastest-growing parts of Microsoft, the Azure public cloud for hosting applications and websites, grew 48%, accelerating from 47% in the prior quarter. Microsoft doesn't disclose revenue from Azure in dollars. Analysts had expected around 44% growth.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsMicrosoft's Intelligent Cloud segment, featuring Azure, Enterprise Services, GitHub and server products such as SQL Server and Windows Server, contributed $12.99 billion in revenue, up 20% year over year and more than the $12.73 billion consensus among analysts polled by FactSet.The Productivity and Business Processes segment, which includes Dynamics, LinkedIn and Office, delivered $12.32 billion in revenue. That's up 11% and higher than the $11.78 billion FactSet consensus. Teams, one part of the Office 365 productivity app bundle, now has over 115 million daily active users, up from 75 million in April, CEO Satya Nadella said on the call.Revenue from the More Personal Computing segment, containing search advertising, Surface, Windows and Xbox, came to $11.85 billion. That means the segment's revenue grew 6% year over year, and it was above the $11.18 billion consensus among analysts surveyed by FactSet. Microsoft will release the Xbox Series X and Series S consoles on Nov. 10, and Hood called for gaming revenue growth in "the high 20% range" in the fiscal second quarter, which would be up sequentially from 21.6% growth in the fiscal first quarter.Licensing revenue from Windows device makers declined 5% in the quarter, and licensing revenue for commercial devices in particular fell some 22%, compared with the 4% decrease in the prior quarter, the worst performance in more than five years. Technology industry research company Gartner estimated that third-quarter PC shipments grew 3.7% year over year and saw the fastest growth in the U.S. in a decade.Microsoft's search advertising business declined 10%, and Hood said Microsoft sees a "decline in the mid to high single-digit range" in the fiscal second quarter.The Commercial Cloud collection of products, including Azure, Dynamics 365, commercial LinkedIn and Office 365 services, added up to $15.2 billion in revenue, representing almost 41% of total revenue, up from around 38% in the prior quarter. Commercial Cloud gross margin was 71%, passing the 70% mark for. the first time.This is the first quarter Microsoft benefits from an accounting change that extended the useful life of its server equipment from two years to four years.In the quarter Microsoft announced the $7.5 billion acquisition of Zenimax Media, the company behind video game franchises such as Doom and Quake, and Microsoft failed to make a deal involving the video-sharing app TikTok.In January, Microsoft announced a goal to be carbon-negative, which would involve removing more carbon than it emits, by 2030. In the fiscal first quarter Microsoft provided an update, saying it had extended an internal carbon tax to all parts of its operations and updated its code of conduct for suppliers so that suppliers will have to specify their emissions.Excluding the after-hours move, Microsoft shares are up about 36% since the start of 2020, while the S&P 500 is up 5% over the same period.WATCH: Microsoft partners with SpaceX to launch Azure Space—Here's what to know about the initiativeVIDEO2:3002:30Microsoft partners with SpaceX to launch Azure Space—Here's what to know about the initiativeSquawk Alley

2020/10/10, In this article4397.T-JPSatya Nadella in New Delhi, India.Ramesh Pathania | Mint | Getty ImagesWhen Microsoft-owned LinkedIn said last month that it would add a video-calling feature to direct messages, it said it would start allowing users to kick off calls through Microsoft Teams, Zoom and Verizon-owned Blue Jeans.Skype, Microsoft's third-biggest acquisition after LinkedIn and Nokia, was left out.The effort stemmed from a project engineers developed for a Covid-response hackathon LinkedIn held earlier this year. LinkedIn employees use Blue Jeans internally, and they also chose to incorporate "the other most popular services, Zoom and, in our own backyard, Teams," Chris Szeto, senior director of product, told CNBC. LinkedIn employees worked with   the team behind Microsoft Teams to build the integration, Szeto said.The absence of Skype in the implementation exemplifies the video-calling service's diminishing presence in a year when competitors became more prominent than ever, as the coronavirus pandemic forced people to connect online. Skype is still around — it's just been upstaged.Skype did get a boost from the virus. In March Microsoft said that Skype had 40 million daily active users, up 70 percent from the previous month. But even at Microsoft, it's not the star. In April the company said Teams had amassed 75 million daily active users.More recently, Skype has lagged behind its competitors. The Skype iPhone app failed to crack the top 200 apps ranked on Apple's App Store in August and September, according to data from app-analytics company AppAnnie, while Zoom for iPhone never left the top 20 and Google Meet was generally in the top 100.Microsoft has brought out many Teams updates this year, including some, such as breakout rooms and support for up to 1,000 meeting participants, designed to help stave off newcomer Zoom, whose usage spiked during the pandemic.Skype has received some enhancements this year, too, but not as many as Teams. It's now possible to raise your hand or change your virtual background during a Skype call, for instance.Microsoft is also trying to broaden Skype usage by placing the app in some of its consumer-facing products. Soon, when you open a new tab in the Edge web browser or the online version of Outlook, there will be a button for quickly creating a Skype call. If you invite your friends to a call by sending a link, they can join without downloading or signing up for Skype. Microsoft also started testing a Skype integration in Windows 10 — you can start a call by clicking a new button in the System Tray.But these feature updates and integrations are unlikely to help Skype grow, said Jim Gaynor, a research vice president at Directions on Microsoft, a company that advises companies on using Microsoft products."If Skype was going to become bigger, this year was the time for it," Gaynor said. "What happened right now was the perfect storm, the perfect set of circumstances for any online communications product. If you cannot significantly grow and make your product flourish and thrive now, forget about it, you're too late now."The good old daysSkype is an old brand by tech standards. The company was founded in 2003 — a year before Facebook — and went through several owners while amassing a devoted core of users. It also had a solid place in the tech-cultural zeitgeist as a tool for distant relatives to stay in touch.By the fourth quarter of 2010 it had an average of 145 million monthly connected users, and Microsoft bought it from a private investor group in 2011 for $8.6 billion — its largest acquisition ever at the time. Microsoft's then-CEO, Steve Ballmer, said that the deal could bring together hundreds of millions, or even billions, of consumers. (In a 2019 blog post a Microsoft engineer wrote that Skype had reached "four billion total users, more than 300 million monthly active users, and more than 40 million concurrent users.")Then-Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer speaks during a news conference about Microsoft's purchase of Skype in San Francisco on May 10, 2011.Justin Sullivan | Getty ImagesBallmer's successor, Satya Nadella, has moved Microsoft away from some consumer markets. In 2014, a few months after Nadella became CEO, Microsoft drew on the Skype name when it rebranded its Lync unified-communications software to Skype for Business.In 2014 Slack came out with its team-communications software. Microsoft responded by introducing Teams in 2016. Then, in 2017, Microsoft declared that Teams, not Skype for Business, would be its main work communications program in its Office 365 productivity app bundle. Last year the company started putting new Office 365 customers on Teams. Some organizations still use Skype for Business, though, Gaynor said.While Microsoft was busy deemphasizing Skype, other communication apps for consumers, such as Apple's FaceTime and iMessage, Facebook's Messenger and WhatsApp and Tencent's WeChat, were rising in popularity.Microsoft seems to be telegraphing Skype's eventual demise. This year Microsoft made it possible for Skype users to call Teams users, and vice-versa. At the Ignite conference for IT professionals last week, more than 100 sessions touched on Teams, while there was just one talking about Skype — and it was about moving to Teams.Microsoft says Skype is still important, even as it expands Teams for consumer use. For instance, soon it will be possible to keep a shopping list or share your location with friends or family members in Teams."Skype will remain a great option for people who love it and want to connect with chat and video calling capabilities," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email.But perhaps the best measure of how far Skype has fallen comes from popular culture. Last month, "The Late Late Show with James Corden" took a swipe at Skype. He and other actors playing Skype employees think up ways to overtake Zoom — the head of marketing, after arriving late, says, "Sorry, I had the wrong Zoom room." The workers decide to establish a raffle. Every time someone signs up for Skype, they're given a shot at winning a vacation on a cruise ship."The world certainly does need some humor right now and we appreciate the comedic gesture," the spokesperson wrote.WATCH: Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusVIDEO9:4709:47Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusSquawk Box

2020/10/20, In this articleMSFTGOOGLBill Gates, (R) talks with Steven Ballmer, who was named President of Microsoft July 21, 1998 in Redmond, Washington.Jeff Chistensen | Getty ImagesThe Department of Justice's long-expected antitrust lawsuit against Google draws explicitly from the government's antitrust case against Microsoft almost 20 years ago, offering a narrowly focused argument that has a better chance of holding up than the Microsoft case did.The Microsoft case included several lines of argument, but the core of it was whether Microsoft illegally bundled its web browser, Internet Explorer, with its market-dominating Windows operating system, in turn closing out opportunities for other browsers, including Netscape Navigator.After many twists and turns, including a breakup order that was overturned on appeal, Microsoft and the government reached a fairly narrow settlement in 2001. That settlement did not establish that Microsoft's bundling of Internet Explorer with Windows was illegal, nor did it require Microsoft to unbundle its browser from Windows. However, it did restrict the terms and conditions that Microsoft could impose on PC makers who distributed Windows.In other words, after all was said and done, the Microsoft antitrust case in the U.S. was mainly about distribution.This time around, the DOJ is cutting straight to the chase and focusing on how Google uses distribution, particularly on mobile devices, to bolster its alleged monopolies in search and search advertising.'Exclusionary agreements'The DOJ's argument focuses on how Google pays distributors, including mobile device makers and mobile carriers, to ensure they make its search engine the default. In exchange, the complaint says, Google sometimes requires these distributors to take other Google apps, including search apps, "and feature them on devices in prime positions where consumers are most likely to start their internet searches."Specifically:Google allegedly requires some device makers who want some Google apps to accept other apps they don't want, keep them permanently installed on the device and give Google apps and services "the most valuable and important real estate on the default home screen."For some mobile devices, Google allegedly prohibits device makers and carriers from preinstalling or setting defaults to rival search engines.The complaint goes on to say that more than 80% of mobile search queries are covered by these allegedly exclusionary agreements.It also goes into detail about how Google exercises control over the Android mobile operating system, which it created and distributes under an open-source license.In theory, open source licenses give anybody the right to copy, modify and redistribute the code used to create a piece of software. But Google essentially offers tiered versions of Android. If device makers want, they can take the basic operating system and do whatever they want with it. But if they want access to particular Google apps or services, they must sign agreements that limit what they can do with Android.Google uses this control to boost distribution of its search engine and search ads business, the complaint says.Microsoft cited as precedentThe complaint draws a specific parallel between what Google is doing now and what Microsoft did more than 20 years ago, saying that both companies used these agreements to shut off distribution for rivals. Notably, the complaint calls back to the D.C. Circuit's decision -- that's the court of appeals, which overturned much of the lower court's much broader ruling:"Almost 20 years ago, the D.C. Circuit in United States v. Microsoft recognized that anticompetitive agreements by a high-tech monopolist shutting off effective distribution channels for rivals, such as by requiring preset default status (as Google does) and making software undeletable (as Google also does), were exclusionary and unlawful under Section 2 of the Sherman Act."The DOJ complaint also claims that Google learned from Microsoft's mistakes, and carefully avoided using certain language to shield its actions from antitrust regulators. For instance, the complaint cites Google's chief economist telling employees to avoid using terms like "Cutting off the air supply" -- a phrase that a Microsoft exec allegedly used to describe its stance toward Netscape. (The exec, Paul Maritz, denied he ever said it).The DOJ complaint also says that Google instructed employees to avoid terms like "bundle" and "kill" when talking about the competition, and to avoid observing the company had "market power" in any market.No kitchen sinkGoogle is a sprawling conglomerate with many different business lines. This can often lead to arguments against the company that lack focus.For instance, when Democratic-led staff of the the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust released its massive report last month on antitrust and Big Tech, it called the company "an ecosystem of interlocking monopolies" and touched on many alleged abuses, including how Google displays search results to favor its own properties, its acquisition of ad tech companies like DoubleClick and AdMob and how it uses other products like Chrome, Android and the Google Play Store to bolster its dominance.The DOJ complaint smartly avoids this kitchen-sink approach and focuses very specifically on Google's strongest and most important businesses -- search and search ads -- and how it allegedly uses distribution on mobile devices to foreclose competition.By focusing its arguments and calling very specifically back to the Microsoft case, the DoJ increases its chance of prevailing in this case while leaving the door very much open for future cases in other areas.The outcome is unlikely to be a single blow that destroys Google or opens the door to a wave of new competition. Rather, as was the case with Microsoft, this is likely the beginning of a decade-plus wave of antitrust litigation that could distract and slow the company, leaving it more vulnerable to encroachment from large and well-funded competitors like Facebook and Amazon.VIDEO2:5502:55Department of Justice announces antitrust lawsuit: Google unlawfully maintaining monopolySquawk on the Street

2020/10/19, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella, CEO of MicrosoftCNBCMicrosoft has repeatedly said it's committed to boosting diversity. Now the company has strengthened that commitment by pledging it will seek minority candidates who could one day take the place of CEO Satya Nadella."The board is committed to actively seeking highly qualified women and individuals from minority groups to include in the pool of potential CEO candidates," Microsoft said in its annual proxy statement on Monday. The board handles CEO succession planning, including identifying both internal and external candidates and coming up with plans to develop internal candidates, according to the filing.The statement does not signal anything about Nadella's plans or status -- Microsoft, like nearly every other company, regularly includes language about succession planning in its annual filings. However, the statement's commitment to diversity at the CEO level is new, and is unusual among tech companies.Microsoft is among the many technology companies that have released data showing their relative lack of racial and gender diversity and said they intended to increase diversity. Nadella, who was born in southern India, brought diversity to the CEO seat when he succeeded Steve Ballmer in 2014. Now, as Microsoft seeks to acknowledge social tensions, the company's board appears eager to emphasize its own commitment to diversity.In recent years Microsoft's board-level diversity has increased somewhat. In its proxy, the company claims seven out of the 12 board members are "diverse" -- that includes women and non-White board members. In 2014, shortly after Nadella took over, five out of the 10 board members were "diverse." The board's chairman since 2014, John Thompson, is Black.Microsoft released diversity figures for the first time in 2014, as did competitors such as Amazon and Google. The report showed Microsoft was 71.0% male globally and 60.6% White in the U.S. By 2019 Microsoft was 70.7% male globally and 52.1% White in the U.S.In June, after George Floyd died while in police custody in Minnesota, Nadella became more vocal on diversity."As we see the everyday racism, bias and violence experienced by the Black and African American community, the tragic and horrific murders of so many, the violence in cities across the US, it is time for us to act in all arenas," he told employees in a memo. Weeks later he sent out another memo, saying that Microsoft "will double the number of Black and African American people managers, senior individual contributors, and senior leaders in the United States by 2025."Earlier this month Microsoft said the U.S. Labor Department had contacted the company to determine if the plan is illegal.WATCH: CNBC's full interview with Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaVIDEO15:3015:30Watch CNBC's full interview with Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaSquawk Alley

2020/10/13, In this articleMSFTWhen Brian Janous started at Microsoft in 2011 as a data center utility architect, he joined at a time when energy and sustainability issues were still nascent."I was the first person that was brought into the organization to work on energy and sustainability issues. This was back in the time when it … certainly wasn't clear to me why a company like Microsoft even needed someone like me," Janous told CNBC by phone."And the person that was hiring me, (said), 'I really think this whole cloud thing is going to be a big deal. And I think energy is going to be really important to the future of our company.' And he was clearly correct. Obviously, over the last several years, as the cloud has really exploded, energy and our environmental footprints have become increasingly important issues," he added.The U.S. government estimated that data centers in the country used around 70 billion kWh of electricity in 2014, which equates to about 1.8% of the country's total consumption, and the figure is set to reach approximately 73 billion kWh of energy in 2020.Nine years after he joined Microsoft, Janous has risen to become the company's general manager of energy and sustainability. Expanding its green ambitions to its supply chain meant the company went from having a "handful" of people overseeing sustainability to having teams think about environmental issues "as a core function," Janous said. Efforts culminated in January, when Microsoft announced its goal to become carbon negative by 2030.VIDEO7:2407:24Digital Realty CEO on plans to equip Dallas data centers with wind energyMad Money with Jim CramerLast month, it also announced that it would replenish more water than it consumes by 2030, focusing on 40 "highly stressed" basins where it operates. It's not the first tech company to make such an announcement — in May, Intel pledged to become net positive for water use by the end of the decade. And water use is a global issue: The U.N. estimates that the world is using six times more water now than it was 100 years ago and use is going up by about 1% annually. The U.S. government estimates that data centers would use 660 billion liters of water in 2020, that's enough to fill 264,000 Olympic-sized swimming pools.Microsoft now makes more than 36% of its revenue from its Commercial Cloud group — up from 10% in 2016 — and it's working on ways to make the data centers (that provide those cloud computing products) more energy efficient, from putting them under water to testing hydrogen fuel cells for backup power. Azure, Microsoft's public cloud network, is delivered via more than 60 data center regions, including one in Arizona — one of the driest states in the U.S. — that will open in 2021."We actually design our data centers to be incredibly water efficient. The vast majority of the time, even in places like Arizona, we use no water for cooling, we cool our data centers with outside air," Janous explained. It's only when temperatures reach about 85 degrees Farenheit that water has to be used, he added, and Microsoft uses evaporative cooling technology, which is similar to domestic air conditioning.LightRocket | Getty ImagesDigital waterOne issue with understanding areas under water stress is that data isn't always digitized or accessible. Many parties are involved in providing water to homes or businesses and there are multiple departments involved that don't always share information with each other, according to a 2019 report by the International Water Association.Via its AI for Earth program, Microsoft has provided a grant to the Leadership Counsel for Justice and Accountability, to work on software to better predict levels and accessibility in the drought-threatened Central Valley region of California. The Leadership Counsel is using Azure to create a dashboard to provide estimates on the availability of drinking water and the affect extreme drought has on its availability.Companies that use data in water management are a focus for growth accelerator Elemental Excelerator, which invests in businesses that tackle climate change in a variety of sectors. Each year, it has around 800 applicants to its program, three of which were selected for its current water sector cohort, announced last week.One of them is NEER, a technology platform that manages water using machine learning to help predict and prevent events such as floods or leaking pipes, working across drinking water, stormwater and sewer infrastructure. In the U.S., one estimate put the cost of repairing water main breaks at $2.6 billion a year."Instead of … if a pipe is leaking (and) running around to plug it, you can take a more active approach to understand exactly where your system failures may come, and how to best use the capital and time that you have at hand to prevent and preserve the existing infrastructure," explained Kim Baker, Elemental Excelerator's director of water innovation, who spoke to CNBC by phone.VIDEO2:1002:10Tech and innovation could change how we deal with e-wasteSustainable EnergyBaker agrees that there has historically been an increased focus on carbon footprint over water management by corporates, but announcements by firms such as Microsoft and Intel help to raise issues. "One of the gaps we saw at Elemental is how to tell the story for that public consumption, how to remove the technical jargon … in such a way that corporate leaders (and) sustainability teams can grab a hold of that and have some sort of human connection to water, wastewater, stormwater, whatever it may be. It is the foundation of life," she stated.Technology can be a solution to water issues, but any initiative needs to have public support, Baker added. "(Microsoft) is doing the right thing, which is using the data they have to drive the process. The next step for me is to ground that process in the communities where this work is going to take place, followed by stakeholder engagement to catalyze whatever installation or technology demonstration they're going to do, to translate that work into lasting business opportunities," she told CNBC.For Janous, the hard work to achieve Microsoft's climate goals is just getting started: "It's great to set these ambitious targets, but now we actually have to really get to work … how can we keep pushing the envelope to ensure that we have the greatest impact, inside of these commitments that we've made?"CNBC's Jordan Novet contributed to this report

2020/10/20, In this articleMSFTGOOGLVIDEO4:2704:27D.O.J.'s Google lawsuit is trying to promote competition instead of restructuring product: Tim WuSquawk AlleyThe U.S. government's antitrust argument against Google is highly reminiscent of the landmark lawsuit it brought against Microsoft, Columbia University law professor Timothy Wu told CNBC.The Department of Justice sued Google on Tuesday for what it claims are unlawful practices that allowed Google to amass monopoly power in online search. The DOJ alleges Google has cut off competitors from key distribution channels to retain its dominance."The challenge I think for this suit is even though I think they chose their best lawsuit, it's almost an exact copy of the Microsoft case they won in the '90s," said Wu, who is credited with coining the term "net neutrality." He has taught at Columbia Law School since 2006 and has worked at the Federal Trade Commission, including when it conducted a probe of Google that resulted in no charges in 2013.Microsoft settled its yearslong case with the Justice Department in 2001, after the tech giant appealed a judge's ruling that the company broke antitrust laws by bundling Internet Explorer with Windows.In an interview on "Squawk Alley," Wu said he believes the fundamental aspect of the DOJ's claims against Google are "relatively strong" and "not that hard to understand.""It's basically that [Google] ... put concrete over any possible way to challenge them. That's their lawsuit, which is exactly what Microsoft did," said Wu, who in 2018 published a book titled, "The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age."Wu said the difference between the two antirust actions is Microsoft had a more clear victim in Netscape Navigator than Google does. "I guess victim here is Bing, and Bing is not the most sympathetic victim. I have to admit," he said, referencing the Microsoft's own search engine offering.In its lawsuit, the Justice Department contends that "Google's grip over distribution also thwarts potential innovation." The DOJ also references the Microsoft case, claiming Google is using similar practices to what the D.C. Circuit court considered anticompetitive almost two decades ago.Google called the Justice Department's lawsuit "deeply flawed." In a blog post Chief Legal Officer Kent Walker said that people choose to use Google because they want to, "not because they're forced to, or because they can't find alternatives." Walker also contends the lawsuit hurts consumers in a way that ultimately would render it "harder for people to get the search services they want to use."Wu said diminishing the quality of Google's search service to the detriment of users is a big concern, one that was top of mind when the FTC investigated the company years ago. "You don't want to break the product," he said."The Justice Department's suit is trying to open up some of the channels where someone could compete with Google in search. That's their big idea," he added. He also said he believes it is unlikely the case would end with Google having to be broken up from its parent company, Alphabet.In the seven years since the FTC closed its investigation of Google, Wu said the public attitude toward large technology companies has shifted and resulted in more concerns over data privacy. However, he said antitrust law in the country has not kept pace with the complexities of modern-day technology companies, since potential harm to consumers is not always evident in higher prices when services are offered for free."It shows that really maybe the antitrust law, other than Microsoft, doesn't have a lot bullets in the gun," he added. "The kinds of concerns the public have have to do with data and privacy, and things like if you think about Facebook, some of the buying of competitors. Some of that newer-age control over those kind of markets ... it's not clear if the antitrust law is quite up to it for those."VIDEO2:5202:52DuckDuckGo CEO: We'd like to see a search preference menu where consumers can choose their providerSquawk Alley

2021/01/21, Tim Cook at Apple EventSource: AppleHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2020/10/22, A Boeing 737-990 (ER) operated by Alaska Airlines takes off from JFK Airport on August 24, 2019 in Queens, New York.Bruce Bennett | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said Thursday it plans to buy alternative jet fuel for some Alaska Airlines flights, the technology giant's latest effort to reduce carbon emissions, this time those generated by its frequent business travel.The pandemic has devastated air travel demand, particularly for lucrative business trips, but even the maker of the Teams video conferencing app is preparing for a rebound."We believe that as we return to the skies, the travel routes we've had ... will resume at the level they had been before," said Judson Althoff, executive vice president of Microsoft's worldwide commercial business. "This gives us the ability to get ahead of all of that because the climate crisis can't wait."Microsoft pledged in January to become "carbon negative" by 2030, meaning it would remove more carbon from the atmosphere than it emits. Commercial air travel contributes 2% to 3% of global carbon emissions."Business travel has been one of the areas that is sort of like the long pole in the tent on trying to solve for sustainability," said Althoff. "It's easy to do certain things in the equation of pursuing being net zero and net negative in carbon, but travel and certainly air travel is one of the more difficult ones."The fuel, made out of waste oil from sources like cooking, is blended with traditional jet fuel and will be distributed by Amsterdam-based SkyNRG at Los Angeles International Airport.Microsoft and Alaska declined to say how much the fuel will cost or disclose the volume purchased. Microsoft said it is meant to cover carbon emissions generated from its business travel on the company's most commonly booked routes: from Seattle to Los Angeles, San Francisco and San Jose, California.Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft is Alaska Airlines' second-largest corporate customer after Amazon.Airlines including Alaska, JetBlue, Delta and United have recently committed to buying more biofuel for their aircraft, but it's still a small fraction of the total fuel they generally consume and more costly than traditional fuel. Althoff said a goal is to drum up demand for alternative jet fuels so production follows, driving down the price.Alaska CEO Brad Tilden told CNBC that the Microsoft deal is the first of its kind in the U.S."I believe it may well become a template for other business travelers," Tilden said.The deal, which the companies said could be expanded, was in the works earlier this year, before the coronavirus became a global crisis. The metrics were based off of Microsoft's pre-pandemic business travel.Althoff said Microsoft employees are currently allowed to travel for customer service, sales and other needs.VIDEO2:3902:39Microsoft to become carbon negative by 2030Closing Bell

2020/09/14, Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, speaks with Herbert Diess, CEO of Volkswagen AG (not pictured), about a joint project between the two companies called the Volkswagen Automotive Cloud in Berlin on Feb. 27, 2019.Sean Gallup | Getty ImagesMany people look at Microsoft and see a dusty company that has benefited from the shift to cloud computing. That's not wrong. It just overlooks the reality that Microsoft still gets most of its revenue from other markets. The 45-year-old company sells ads, game consoles, operating systems, PCs and other products.Investors like that Microsoft is diversified. That attribute distinguishes it from other highly valued technology companies, including cloud rivals Amazon and Google. The pandemic did not weigh on second-quarter results as much as it did for Google, which experienced its first revenue decline. And older assets continue to enable Microsoft to invest in newer ones."Windows provided the financial capacity for Microsoft to undergo a significant investment in capital and building a business" in cloud infrastructure, said Nicholas Puncer, a portfolio manager at Bahl & Gaynor Investment Counsel, based in Cincinnati. The firm first bought Microsoft shares in the early 2000s. At the end of the second quarter Microsoft was its biggest holding, according to a filing. Puncer said that Microsoft is a better cash producer than it's ever been and that newer products such as Teams set up the company for greater monetization.

2020/10/27, Dado Ruvic | Reuters(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only.)Microsoft is set to report earnings on Tuesday after the bell, and if history is any guide, this period's report tends to be a good one for the shares.

2020/10/20, In this articleMSFTMicrosoft boss Satya Nadella speaking at the DLD (Digital-Life-Design) conference in Munich, Germany, 16 Janaury 2017. Guests at the 3-day conference discussed trends and developments in digitalisation.Tobias Hase | picture alliance | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said Tuesday it's starting to release the next version of its Windows 10 operating system for PCs and tablets. The Windows 10 October 2020 Update, aka version 20H2, irons out technical and security issues and provides a handful of software enhancements.More than 1 billion devices run Windows 10, making it more popular than Apple's MacOS and Google's Chrome OS. Windows contributes about 16% of Microsoft's revenue, as consumers and businesses buy machines with the operating system installed.Microsoft introduced Windows 10 in 2015. Since then the company has issued two updates per year. This marks the second year Microsoft is bringing out a relatively low-profile update in the fall that seeks to boost the performance and quality of Windows, rather than a release packed with attention-grabbing new features that people might have to learn how to use.Here are some of the changes in version 20H2:The new version of the Edge browser powered by the open-source Chromium engine arrives, for those who don't already have it. Compared with the Microsoft-made Edge that debuted with Windows 10 in 2015, Chromium-based Edge supports more websites and browser extensions. Microsoft had made early versions of Chromium-based Edge available for people to download in 2019, but the company had not previously packaged it up with a Windows update until now. (Chromium is the same core technology that powers Google's popular Chrome browser, but released under an open-source license for third parties to modify and redistribute.)If you choose to use Edge, the Alt + Tab keyboard shortcut will allow you to toggle between different browser tabs, as well as any open programs. Users can adjust or disable that new behavior by going to Settings > System > Multitasking.If you pin a website — say, CNBC.com — to your Taskbar in Edge, now when you hover over the app icon for that website in the Taskbar, Windows will show you all of the open browser tabs from that website across various browser windows. It's similar to the way you can see all open windows for a given program, such as Excel, by hovering over its icon in the Taskbar.If you have a two-in-one PC, such as a Surface Pro, and you take off the keyboard, Windows will no longer display a dialog box to ask if you'd like to switch to tablet mode; it will just do that automatically.The background color for icons that appear on the Start menu will look consistent and match well with the light or dark color of the full Start menu, depending on whether the machine uses a light or dark theme.Microsoft will try to do a better job of selecting the app icons that will appear by default in the Taskbar when people create new accounts or log on for the first time. For instance, the Taskbar might display the Your Phone app instead of the standard-issue Mail app for people who have linked their Android phones to Windows. Microsoft said it won't change Taskbar app icons for existing accounts.It's easier to take action on the specifications of a given PC and its version of Windows. Microsoft has added copy buttons to the Settings > System > About page.You can check if the update is available for your PC by going to Settings > Update & Security > Windows Update and clicking the "check for updates" button.WATCH: Microsoft is launching its "smallest Xbox ever"—Here are the detailsVIDEO1:1801:18Microsoft is launching its "smallest Xbox ever"—Here are the detailsNews Videos

2020/09/21, VIDEO4:2704:27Xbox head Phil Spencer on the $7.5 billion deal to buy Bethesda parent ZeniMaxSquawk AlleyMicrosoft announced Monday that it will buy ZeniMax Media, the company that owns well-known video game publisher Bethesda, for $7.5 billion in cash.It's the biggest gaming acquisition in Microsoft's history. The company bought Mojang, the studio behind popular title Minecraft, for $2.5 billion in late 2014. That proved to be a boon to the company as Minecraft continued to surge in popularity, rapidly becoming the world's bestselling game with more than 200 million copies sold to date.The acquisition of Bethesda gives Microsoft access to a raft of successful game franchises, including the role-playing game series Fallout and The Elder Scrolls and the Doom shooter franchise."Gaming is the most expansive category in the entertainment industry, as people everywhere turn to gaming to connect, socialize and play with their friends," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said."With the addition of Bethesda, Microsoft will grow from 15 to 23 creative studio teams and will be adding Bethesda's iconic franchises to Xbox Game Pass," Microsoft said. "This includes Microsoft's intent to bring Bethesda's future games into Xbox Game Pass the same day they launch on Xbox or PC."Microsoft's Xbox unit is betting heavily on subscriptions this year. Its Xbox Game Pass platform gives players access to dozens of games and the firm recently included a so-called cloud gaming feature that lets users play games on their phone or tablet. Microsoft said it aims to bring Bethesda's upcoming space-themed game Starfield to Xbox Game Pass on the day of launch.Microsoft is also selling its new Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S consoles — which will go head-to-head with Sony's PlayStation 5 next month — via point-of-sale financing plans to spread the cost over monthly installments. Preorders for both systems start Tuesday.ZeniMax to remain independentSpeaking Monday on CNBC's "Squawk Alley," Microsoft Xbox head Phil Spencer said ZeniMax would continue to operate independently following the acquisition and suggested there would be no cuts at the company."Our plan is to leave it alone," Spencer said. "ZeniMax has an amazing track record of building great games. Our goal is to make ZeniMax the best ZeniMax they can be."VIDEO1:1801:18Microsoft is launching its "smallest Xbox ever"—Here are the detailsNews VideosThe deal comes at a time when interest in video games has surged thanks to the coronavirus pandemic. Demand for gaming exploded as countries went into lockdown earlier this year, and companies in the sector have reported rising profits and revenues as a result. The industry is forecast to generate revenues of $159.3 billion this year, according to games analytics firm Newzoo."This announcement comes at a critical time," George Jijiashvili, a senior analyst at Omdia, told CNBC. "The lead-up to the launch of the next-gen consoles is when gamers pick their 'religion.'"Jijiashvili said Microsoft could launch Bethesda games as exclusive Xbox titles, meaning they wouldn't be available on other platforms such as the PS4, PS5 and Nintendo Switch. Microsoft recently said it would delay the launch of Halo Infinite, one of the flagship games for its new consoles, until sometime in 2021."The delay to Halo Infinite, the most anticipated Xbox exclusive, is a huge blow to Microsoft, but it is betting that Game Pass will sway gamers in the long run, thanks to day-one launches, cloud gaming and a growing library of appealing games," Jijiashvili said. "The question of exclusivity now looms large. Microsoft has not opted for the exclusive route with its past acquisitions, but this may change given the scale of this acquisition."

2020/09/10, You get two big screen inside the Surface Duo.Todd Haselton | CNBCMicrosoft and Samsung are betting that future phones will look different from how they look now.Samsung's betting on foldable screens inside phones that can open up to work like a tablet. Microsoft's testing the waters with the Surface Duo, which looks like a glass Moleskine notebook with two displays hiding inside. It's like having two monitors on your computer. You can run one app on one screen, another on the opposite, or one app across both. And, thanks to a fancy 360-degree hinge, you can swing it around so you're only looking at one display like a regular phone. Or prop it up like a tent to watch movies.I've been testing the $1,399 Microsoft Surface Duo, which runs Google Android with special software to support the unique design, for the past several weeks. It has its shortcomings, but it's also a unique and fun gadget that's doing something totally different than any other product out there. And while I'll argue it's a phone because it can make phone calls, Microsoft has been hesitant to call it that and instead thinks of it as a totally new category of device. But, let's be honest ... it's a phone.Microsoft Surface DuoMicrosoftMicrosoft isn't new to phones. Its Windows Mobile operating system was successful until the iPhone launched in 2007. Microsoft tried to respond with new Windows Phone software, which largely failed because there weren't enough apps. It acquired Nokia's devices division in 2013, another failure that ended in a $7.2 billion write-off in 2015. All of this is why Microsoft chose Google's Android software, which already has millions of apps and is familiar to people around the world, to power the Surface Duo.The Surface Duo is not for everyone. It's for gadget enthusiasts and Office 365 diehards who want to run two apps at the same time on two different screens and, really, that's probably not a whole lot of people right now. We're accustomed to using one screen and one app at a time. But Microsoft is trying to change that, and it's made it clear this is a first-generation device and has drawn some comparisons to its unique new design and the first Surface tablet. The first Surface tablet wasn't good. Now they're great, and lots of companies build similar products.Here's what you need to know about the Surface Duo.What's goodThe Surface Duo has excellent hardware with a glass and metal design.Todd Haselton | CNBCI love the design. The Surface Duo is white with glass covering the front and back and a flashy metal Microsoft logo that matches the 360-degree hinge. There are two highlights: It's super thin, and the hinge feels smooth and sturdy.It's so thin so that, even when folded, it's just a hair thicker than my iPhone 11 Pro. Microsoft said it had to do a lot of engineering under the hood, such as using two separate batteries and dozens of wires that run between the two displays, to get this to work. The hinge allows you to open the Surface Duo and bend one screen all the way back to the other side. And it stays open wherever you leave it, so you can prop it up like a tent, hold it like a book or lay it flat. There's also a fingerprint reader built into the side of the phone for unlocking it. It's clear a lot of thought went into designing the Surface Duo.The side of the Surface Duo, where you'll find the fingerprint reader.Todd Haselton | CNBCI also like that Microsoft chose to use glass screens on the inside, which means you don't have to worry as much about damage to them as you do with Samsung's Galaxy Fold products, which use much thinner and more fragile glass that you can't draw on or poke too hard. It comes with rubber bumpers that stick to the sides of it to add extra protection from drops, which I appreciate. The screens are both bright and sharp. I didn't really mind the hinge in the middle while using the Surface Duo because Microsoft's software is built to steer you around it.Running Netflix next to Twitter.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe whole idea here, unlike Samsung's folding phones, is that you're using two screens for two different apps at the same time. Maybe you have email on the left and chat on the right. Or, as I did, a Zoom video call with friends on one screen and your fantasy football draft running on the other. It's great for these use cases and even better if you're using Microsoft apps, which let you drag and drop content from one to the other. On a normal phone, you'd have to be swapping between the apps.All of Microsoft's apps are optimized to spread across both screens so you can see more of the app, too. In Outlook, for example, you can see all of your messages on the left screen and the contents of each message on the right. Amazon built a special version of the Kindle app that allows you to see two pages of a book at a time, which I loved. You can hold it and type in this little laptop mode.Todd Haselton | CNBCIt's usually easy to do this, too. If an app is open, just swipe up from the bottom of the screen and toggle it over the hinge to spread it across both screens. Or, open one app on one screen and another app on the other screen. Microsoft also lets you pair apps and save them to your desktop, so you can click an icon to always launch Twitter next to Google News or Instagram next to YouTube or whatever you want. Samsung lets you do this too, and you can even swap the apps' positioning, which you can't do on the Surface Duo. Microsoft talked a lot about how closely it worked with Google on the software, but I think Samsung and Google did an even better job on software.You can take notes on the Surface Duo with a Surface Pen.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe Surface Duo supports Microsoft's Surface Pens. The regular Surface Pen starts at $100 but is often on sale for less. The nicer model, which has a more ergonomic design, the Surface Slim Pen, starts at $144.99. I wish a pen came in the box, since it works so well with the Surface Duo for taking quick notes in OneNote or other apps. It even magnetically attaches to the outside of the case, though Microsoft says this wasn't by design, that those magnets are actually used to help keep the screens closed.Battery life is pretty good most of the time, but as usual that depends what you're doing. You can get through a whole day pretty easily with light use, even with both screens. And since it doesn't have an outside display showing you notifications all the time, I didn't brainlessly turn it on just to stare at the screen as I do on other phones. The battery will drain pretty quickly when you're pushing the Surface Duo screens with video chat and apps running at the same time.  What's badMicrosoft Surface DuoTodd Haselton | CNBCSometimes the Surface Duo doesn't do what you want it to do, or lags when you're trying to open an app, flip the screen or close an app. Microsoft says it will continue to fix these bugs, but it can get really frustrating when you're trying to do something quickly. In the grocery store, for example, it took me way longer to open the Surface Duo, open my shopping list, flip it into single screen mode and then cross something off the list while I was pushing my cart. This was just so much easier to do from a regular phone. And speaking of that, you have to open it to answer a phone call, since there isn't a speaker or screen on the outside.The Surface Duo was playing the F1 race on YouTube TV upside down.Todd Haselton | CNBCThen there are just weird things that pop up from time to time. A video will play upside down. You'll swipe the screen with your finger several times before it registers your touch. Precise touches like on a checkbox can also be tough, unless you're using a Surface pen. Sometimes you try to expand an app and it crashes entirely. Sometimes an app has clear bars on the top and bottom that show your desktop instead of black borders. Sometimes videos have a thin bar of pixels on the side or above them until you restart the video. All of these things can be fixed, but it shows the software isn't as polished as the hardware, and it makes me question Microsoft's narrative that it worked so closely with Google to get this right.Then there's the stuff that's missing on the Surface Duo that you'll find on most other phones in this price range:It doesn't have wireless charging.There's no 5G, which isn't important yet, but should be in a device that costs $1,399. Microsoft said this wasn't really possible in such a thin device right now.It doesn't have NFC for mobile payments, which is really important for me right now during the pandemic.It has last year's high-end Qualcomm processor, which is powerful but seems to cause some sluggishness in the software from time to time.It only has 128GB of storage at the entry level price ($1,499 gets you 256GB), which probably isn't enough for power users who like to save lots of big files and movies.It's not water resistant, like most devices at this price.It has big black bezels on the top and bottom below the screen, which makes it look a little dated on the inside.There's a single speaker instead of stereo speakers. It's OK until you're watching a movie on the screen that doesn't have a speaker, then things seem off balance.Surface Duo camera sample.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe camera is also really bad for pictures. Microsoft said it had to keep the device really thin, so the camera wasn't a priority, but Google's Pixel phones are proof you can make a great camera that compensates with software. Colors are washed out, and there's not a lot of detail. With a newborn baby in the house, I always used another phone to take pictures. It's all right for video chat over services such as Microsoft Teams, though, which is what I think Microsoft is targeting this device for. But, most of us use our phones as cameras, so the bad camera is a big bummer for me.Amazon Kindle stretches across both pages, but notice how the screens show different shades of white.Todd Haselton | CNBCFinally, there's a slight white imbalance between the two screens. This is most noticeable in the Amazon Kindle app at night, when I was looking at the two white screens side by side. One just looks like a different shade of white than the other. I can't spot it anywhere else, but it's annoying once you see it.Should you buy it?The Surface Duo closed.Todd Haselton | CNBCI guess the question most people have to answer is: Are two screens better than the lack of 5G, mobile payments, water resistance, a good camera, wireless charging, more storage and other things you can get from a cheaper phone?The bad camera alone probably isn't worth it. If you're flush with cash and want a lot of that missing stuff and good cameras with a foldable phone, Samsung's Galaxy Z Fold 2 is a great but very different alternative.I give credit to Microsoft for trying something different when most phones seem to iterate on old candy-bar designs with small changes to cameras and screen quality every year. The design is excellent. The Surface Duo is fun to use when it works and frustrating to use when it doesn't. I think Microsoft can fix a lot of problems through software updates in the coming weeks and months. And despite its shortfalls, I still have a lingering fondness for the Surface Duo that keeps me coming back. It's just so fun and unique when it works.Microsoft says it's committed to the Surface Duo. It's on to something here. I'm excited to see what comes in future models, and I'm looking forward to following along to see how this one evolves.VIDEO5:0205:02First look at Microsoft's new folding phone the Surface DuoTechCorrection: The Surface Duo starts at $1,399.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/09/22, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp.Grant Hindsley | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft on Tuesday announced developer tools for enhancing applications with calling and texting capabilities at its Ignite conference for IT workers.The launch demonstrates one of the ways Microsoft is trying to grow its cloud business by entering smaller individual markets. The company might persuade existing customers to try these tools instead of forming relationships with smaller software companies.The collection of Azure Communication Services from Microsoft includes application programming interfaces that make it possible for third-party applications to make voice and video calls, exchange chat messages, send text messages, and create phone numbers for inbound and outbound calls.Companies such as 8x8, RingCentral and Twilio already offer some of these capabilities. Amazon Web Services (AWS), the largest cloud infrastructure provider, offers developer services for embedding text messaging and video calling into customers' applications.Microsoft executives have said the company would not compete with its own customers. Twilio's main cloud provider is not Microsoft. The company relies on AWS for the vast majority of its cloud infrastructure needs. RingCentral uses its own data center infrastructure, while 8x8 draws on a combination of its own data centers, AWS and the Oracle public cloud.If the notion of Microsoft being capable of running video meetings and chat conversations sounds familiar, that's because it fields Microsoft Teams, the communication app that competes with Slack and Zoom. The same technology inside of Teams is now available for Microsoft's customers to use, Scott Van Vliet, a corporate vice president, told CNBC in an interview Monday. Over time, Microsoft wants to enable customers using Azure Communication Services to connect into Teams, Van Vliet said.People in other areas of Microsoft, such as the one developing the Azure Active Directory service, expressed interest in using Microsoft's cloud-based communication services in their own applications, and from there it become apparent that Microsoft should expose the technologies more widely, Van Vliet said.More than one-third of Microsoft's revenue comes from the Commercial Cloud group of products, which includes the Azure public cloud, business subscriptions to the Office 365 productivity applications that includes Teams, commercial LinkedIn services and cloud versions of the Dynamics 365 enterprise applications. Microsoft has sought to grow Commercial Cloud in part by improving its sales processes in specific industries and releasing a bundle targeted at front-line workers during the Covid-19 pandemic. Also on Tuesday Microsoft announced Azure Orbital, a service for processing data from satellites. And the company said later this year that the Teams communication app will allow a person giving a presentation to appear in the foreground while the app displays PowerPoint slides in the background.WATCH: Microsoft's JEDI cloud proposal represents best value: PentagonVIDEO0:5600:56Microsoft's Jedi Cloud proposal represents best value: PentagonPower Lunch

2020/10/27, VIDEO2:2102:21Options Action: Microsoft earningsOptions ActionThe biggest week in Big Tech earnings season is upon us, and Microsoft kicks things off in earnest when it reports after the bell Tuesday. The stock is already up more than 35% on the year, but options traders are betting the big moves in Microsoft might not be over just yet.The options market is implying a post-earnings move of 5% in either direction, or double the average post-earnings shift of 2.5% that the stock has made over the last several quarters. One of the most notable trades of Monday's session sought to take advantage of that elevated implied move by betting on volatility, regardless of direction."1,500 of the Microsoft Oct. 30, this Friday, and Nov. 6, next Friday, 210/220 strangle swaps traded for $280 [per contract]. So they bought the 210/220 strangle out to Nov. 6, paid $9.75 for that, and they sold the Oct. 30 210/220 [strangle] at $6.95, for a net cash outlay of $2.80," XP Investments Managing Director of institutional equity derivatives said Monday on CNBC's "Fast Money."This trade breaks even about 6.5% higher than where Microsoft closed Monday's session, or just about 1% lower, allowing this trader to cash in regardless of whether Microsoft surprises to the upside or downside in its earnings report."If the stock breaks [below] $203.05, or [above] $226.95 before Friday, what you're going to do to manage this position is sell out of that November long [position] and buy back that October [position]. I thought this was pretty interesting," Eison said. "You're selling earnings volatility, you're buying back earnings and election volatility. Pretty crafty!"Microsoft was trading about 2% higher in Tuesday's session.Disclaimer

2020/10/09, Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaGetty ImagesMicrosoft informed employees this week that they will have more flexibility to work from home, even after it's safe to return to offices, a company spokesperson told CNBC on Friday.The new guidelines, previously reported by The Verge, allow all Microsoft employees to work remotely less than 50% of the time. Employees can also request approval from their managers to work remotely full time, or even move to a new location, with salaries adjusted based on geography.Microsoft last told U.S. employees to expect to work remotely until at least January 2021."We shared guidelines internally this week to provide options for our employees to plan ahead for when we can return to the workplace safely," a Microsoft spokesperson said in a statement to CNBC. "Our goal is to evolve the way we work over time with intention—guided by employee input, data and our commitment to support individual work styles and business needs while living our culture."Microsoft referred to the new policy as a "hybrid model," not an all-encompassing, permanent work-from-home rule that other tech companies such as Twitter have implemented. It's closer to Facebook's recent remote work policy, which allows employees to work from home with manager approval and move to a different location with adjusted salaries. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg predicted in May that 50% of employees will be working remotely within the next five to 10 years.Some Microsoft jobs, such as data center management roles, will still require employees to show up to work in person. The new policy applies to each employee differently, depending on what their job is.Microsoft has more than 166,000 employees, according to its latest reported data.VIDEO3:2203:22Former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on how Big Tech should react to House antitrust reportSquawk Box

2020/09/15, Microsoft Project xCloud will let people stream games to mobile devices, too.MicrosoftMicrosoft's new game streaming service, Project xCloud, is now available on Android phones and tablets. It competes directly with Google's Stadia, which launched last year and lets people play PC games on Android phones, Google's Chromecast Ultra and in the Chrome web browser on most computers.Think of xCloud as the "Netflix of gaming." MIcrosoft's game streaming service lets you play high-quality games, which normally require a powerful Xbox game console, anywhere there's a fast enough (10Mbps or better) internet connection without the need to ever buy an Xbox. Netflix, by comparison, requires half that speed, or 5Mbps, for an HD video stream.The service may help attract casual gamers into Microsoft's ecosystem, since they don't need to spend hundreds of dollars on an Xbox. Game streaming is included as part of Microsoft's $14.99/month Xbox Game Pass Ultimate service, which offers more than 150 Xbox games. Most games also require an Xbox controller paired to your phone over Bluetooth, though a few like Microsoft's "Minecraft Dungeons" also support touchscreen controls.Google Stadia is free, but you have to pay full price for games, which range in price from about $14.99 to $60 or more. Premium Stadia subscribers get access to more free titles per month and 4K gaming, if their internet connection is fast enough to support it. Microsoft's solution is much more like Netflix than Google's, offering an all-you-can-eat buffet of games that you don't pay for individually but have access to as long as you pay the monthly fee.Your experience relies entirely on how good your internet connection is. That can sometimes be a problem. At home, where I have fast internet, it feels very similar to playing directly from my console. But it won't work if your connection is too slow, a problem that Google Stadia also has. It's one reason why carriers are pushing newer 5G networks that will one day offer fast enough data speeds so games can be played anywhere you have your phone.Some industry leaders aren't entirely sold yet on streaming services like Google Stadia and Microsoft xCloud. In an interview with Protocol published on Tuesday, Take-Two Interactive CEO Strauss Zelnick said game streaming won't transform how we play games. Take-Two is an important player in the gaming industry. It publishes hit games like the Grand Theft Auto series and "NBA 2K" and some of its titles are already available on Google Stadia's competing platform. Zelnick told Protocol said streaming services are too reliant on Wi-Fi or cellular networks that won't always be fast enough. "I'm speaking against my own interests, right? We're supposed to paint this picture of nirvana; however, I just don't think it's nirvana," he told Protocol. "Nirvana is making great hits, and then people will find them. We've sold 135 million units of Grand Theft Auto V, 32 million units of Red Dead Redemption. I wish I could tell you that there will come a point where various cloud gaming services will mean those numbers are doubled or tripled, but I don't really see it."Gamers who own iPhones and iPads also can't use Microsoft's new service on those devices. Apple's developer rules prevented game-streaming services until very recently. And, while Apple updated its developer terms on Sept. 11 to allow these sorts of services, Microsoft thinks they'll still offer a "bad experience for customers" since Apple will require Microsoft to offer each game as a separate download.You can try Microsoft Game Streaming now by doing this:Sign up for Xbox Game Pass Ultimate. It's $14.99 a month after a $1 free trial.Pair your Xbox controller with your Android phone or tablet by pressing the small pair button on the back and opening Bluetooth on your Android phone and then selecting the controller.Open the Google Play Store on your Android phone.Download Microsoft's Xbox Game Pass app.Open the app and sign-in to your Microsoft account.Tap the "Cloud" tab on top.Choose "Play" under the game you want to play.VIDEO12:0712:07Why streaming services can't kill video game consoles just yetTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/01/08, Tesla CEO Elon Musk talks to media as he arrives to visit the construction site of the future US electric car giant Tesla, on September 03, 2020 in Gruenheide near Berlin.Odd Andersen | AFP | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday

2020/09/10, In this articleMSFTSource: MicrosoftImagine Patrick Mahomes staring at you after he scores a game-winning touchdown for the defending champion Kansas City Chiefs.Now picture yourself staring back, as you sit in front of a screen, and then giving Mahomes a virtual high five. That's what'll happen starting with the beginning of the NFL season Thursday when Microsoft launches a new version of its fan cheering sections through its Teams video chat app.Microsoft describes the NFL version of the cheering section "as virtual mirrors," or LED screens that will appear in each end zone during NFL games, allowing players to celebrate with fans who are not in attendance. (Most NFL teams will play in empty or mostly empty stadiums due to local restrictions from the coronavirus pandemic.) After a team scores, players can gather around the screen to view themselves celebrating with fans in Teams.The broader collaboration shows how a top sports league is tapping technology to hold compelling live events for large audiences when many people can't attend in person because of the coronavirus.It's also an extension of Microsoft's technological partnership with the NFL that began in 2013, when the league's coaches and staff started using Microsoft's Surface tablets on the sidelines. Neither the NFL nor Microsoft have commented on how much these deals are worth. The virtual fan cams used during this season's games will also be big exposure for Microsoft's Teams product, which had been growing rapidly even before the pandemic spurred a work-from-home tech boom."Part of watching a game on TV is seeing fan reaction," Jeff Teper, the Microsoft corporate vice president in charge of Teams, told CNBC in an interview Wednesday. "This is a chance to make the games more engaging for that TV audience."The video feeds will also come to TV broadcasts, with fans appearing in windows around a player who scored. Think of it as a digital version of the Lambeau Leap. Teper said the NFL wanted to create "energy for the players in a big stadium, so the players know that they are still playing for real people who care passionately about them."In a blog post published Thursday, Teper wrote that the cheering screens, called fan mosaics, will appear on big screens throughout stadiums for "key games" — likely those without spectators. Microsoft will provide audio from the feeds to the NFL so the league will create "augmented crowd noise customized for each stadium," Teper wrote.Microsoft has a similar partnership with the NBA and controls its virtual cheering section for the Disney bubble. Anheuser-Busch occupies the NBA's cheering section sponsorship and will also take the NFL's version, dubbing it the "Bud Light Showtime cam."With Covid-19 still restricting large gatherings in some states, Microsoft leveraged its partnerships with both leagues to sustain fan engagement and assist NBA and NFL broadcast partners with game presentations.Leagues study metrics from virtual fan engagement opportunities and monitor changing consumption habits as sports gambling continues to gain traction in the U.S. Also, franchises might need to create new revenue streams if games continue with no fans allowed."As demographics and viewing habits change and society becomes more digital in the way they consume information, the venues also have to change," said Bennett Indart, a vice president at NTT Smart World Solutions, an information technology firm."And the leagues have to change in terms of how they are serving up that experience," added Indart, whose firm has partnerships with Indianapolis 500 and Tour de France. "I think you're going to find a lot more different ways to view sporting events rather than just going to the venue."In this still image from video provided by the NFL, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell speaks from his home in Bronxville, New York during the first round of the 2020 NFL Draft on April 23, 2020. (Photo by NFL via Getty Images)Photo by NFL via Getty ImagesLearning from the draftIn April, Microsoft worked on the NFL Draft when it rolled out Teams to replicate in-person draft experiences. The NFL scheduled the 2020 draft in Las Vegas, but the event was postponed due to the pandemic and was ultimately held in a virtual setting.Through working on the draft and NBA projects, Teper said Microsoft learned fans still want to "express themselves" despite not being in physical attendance. "The potential to show up on television — to show up on a big screen similar to the gameday experience where a camera goes through the stands and put you on the big screen — there is an excitement to that," said James Bernstrom, director of sports and partnerships at Microsoft.NFL teams will select 30 fans per session to join the fan mosaics and incorporate social media engagements from Twitter.The Los Angeles Rams is using Teams for scouting and evaluating films of players, Teper said. The company works with teams to make sure players can participate in chats and calls in the Teams software, he said. It's not so much about maximizing the number of NFL players using Teams each day, though — even though Microsoft likes pointing to increases in daily active users of the application, which is part of the Office 365 bundle for commercial customers."If we can help them in more processes, if you will, scouting athletes, working on their promotions, preparing their facilities safely for the next game, we don't have this big push about how many users did the Broncos have yesterday versus today," Teper said.VIDEO1:4501:45NFL season kicks off as big advertising money is on the lineSquawk Alley

2020/09/22, VIDEO1:0901:09Here's what to know about Microsoft's new cloud communications tool AzurePower LunchMicrosoft will offer a new service called Azure Orbital that connects satellites directly to its cloud computing network, the company announced at its Ignite conference Tuesday.The service will begin in a "private preview" to a select group of Microsoft customers. Earlier this month CNBC reported on Microsoft's plans to challenge the Ground Station service that's available from Amazon Web Services. Amazon and Microsoft are the two largest providers of cloud infrastructure, with data centers in far-flung places that can host websites and run applications using a variety of computing and storage services."With access to low-latency global fiber networks and the global scale of Microsoft's cloud services, customers can innovate quickly with large satellite datasets," Yves Pitsch, a principal product manager at Microsoft, wrote in a blog post. "The cloud is central to both modern communications scenarios for remote operations and the gathering, processing, and distributing the tremendous amounts of data from space."Azure Orbital has signed up satellite companies Amergint, Kratos, Kongsberg Satellite Services, and Viasat as partners, Pitsch wrote.Where Microsoft plans to build the first Azure Orbital ground stations, most of which the company says are "already a work in progress."MicrosoftIn documents filed with the Federal Communications Commission this past month, Microsoft outlined its intent to build a network of ground stations and show satellite operators the potential benefits of connecting to its Azure cloud. The FCC authorized Microsoft to perform proof-of-concept demonstrations of the service, with the company planning to connect a Spanish imaging satellite to two ground stations — both located in Microsoft's home state of Washington — to show that it can directly download satellite "data to the Azure Cloud for immediate processing," the documents said. Microsoft proposed to construct one of the two ground stations itself at its data center in Quincy, Wash.Amazon leads the growing cloud-computing market, with 45% in 2019, while Microsoft had about 18%, according to technology industry research company Gartner. Microsoft's Azure Orbital announcement arrives almost two years after AWS launched Ground Station.Cloud infrastructure delivers most of Amazon's operating income. In Microsoft's case, Azure is growing faster than other notable products prominent areas, such as Windows.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/09/11, An antenna for a satellite ground stationAmazonMicrosoft is looking to challenge Amazon in offering a service that connects satellites directly to the company's cloud computing network, according to documents the company filed with the Federal Communications Commission last monthThe effort shows how the two largest providers of cloud infrastructure — data centers in far-flung places that can host websites and run applications with a smorgasbord of computing and storage services — regularly seek to one-up each other. That way, the companies can appear ready and willing to meet many of the needs of prospective customers.Microsoft plans to connect a Spanish imaging satellite to two ground stations — both located in Microsoft's home state of Washington — to show that it can directly download satellite "data to the Azure Cloud for immediate processing," the FCC documents said. A ground station, sometimes called an earth station, is the vital link for transmitting data to and from satellites in orbit. Microsoft notably proposed to construct one of the two ground stations itself at its data center in Quincy, Wash.The FCC on Sept. 2 authorized Microsoft to perform proof-of-concept demonstrations of the service. The authorization gives Microsoft a six month license that allows for communications and imagery data downloads. The Spanish satellite, called Deimos-2, was launched into orbit in June 2014. The satellite is operated by a subsidiary of Canadian satellite imagery company UrtheCast and, for the tests, the Deimos-2 satellite will only be in range of Microsoft's antennas for "just a few minutes."Microsoft wants to run the demonstrations before, during and after its Ignite conference for IT professionals, which starts on Sept. 22, the company said in a different FCC filing."If the demonstrations result in significant market interest, Microsoft will file an application for regular earth station authority with the International Bureau (IB) to support future commercial operations, and that application will include a request for U.S. market access for DEIMOS-2," the company wrote.Microsoft declined CNBC's request for comment.Competing with AWSAn AWS Ground Station satellite antenna at one of the company's data center in Boardman, Oregon.AmazonAmazon leads the growing cloud-computing market, with 45% in 2019, while Microsoft had about 18%, according to technology industry research company Gartner. Alibaba, Google, Tencent and other cloud providers each had less than 10% share. Microsoft in particular has a website listing the services available from AWS and its own corresponding offerings, although Ground Station was not listed on the website on Friday. Cloud infrastructure delivers most of Amazon's operating income, and for Microsoft it's growing faster than other prominent areas, such as Windows and commercial subscriptions to the Office 365 productivity bundle.Microsoft outlined in the filings that, by building a network of ground stations, it wants to show to satellite firms the potential benefits of connecting directly to the company's Azure cloud. But Microsoft's not alone. Its strategy matches closely with the one Amazon outlined in November 2018 when it launched its AWS Ground Station service, pitting the tech giants against each other in a new realm of cloud computing services.AWS Ground Station was Amazon's first public move into space-related hardware, with the company also establishing its Aerospace and Satellite Solutions division and working on its own space-based internet network called Project Kuiper. The company's ground station network began service this year at two of its first of 12 planned locations. While Amazon has not disclosed all of AWS Ground Station's customers so far, the company has noted the service is being used by NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab and companies such as Capella Space, Spire Global, Maxar Technologies, Myriota and Thales Alenia Space.Amazon says that AWS Ground Station can connect with wide range of satellites that fly both low and medium Earth orbits. The company boasts that AWS Ground Station reduces the time it takes to process and analyze satellite data "from hours to minutes or seconds," with customers saving "up to 80% on the cost" of traditional ground station operations.– CNBC's Jordan Novet contributed to this report.VIDEO17:4017:40Behind SpaceX and Amazon plans launch thousands of satellitesTechSubscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/09/25, Amazon's Luna cloud gaming service.AmazonLONDON — As Microsoft battles it out with Sony in this year's edition of the console wars, it's now got another rival to worry about.Amazon announced Thursday that it would launch its own cloud gaming service, a kind of "Netflix for games" that forgoes the need for consoles or dedicated hardware to play video games. Called Luna, the platform comes with a library of 100 titles and users can play with a special Luna controller.The entry of Amazon into the raft of companies developing such game-streaming services has long been rumored. The company's announcement now marks an official challenge to the likes of Microsoft and Google, which have both recently launched their own respective cloud gaming products.But Amazon is taking a slightly different approach to those companies. Instead of going for an all-access subscription — like Microsoft is with Xbox Game Pass — Amazon is launching so-called "channels" for a range of publishers, for which users have to pay a monthly fee. Only Ubisoft and Amazon itself have been confirmed as companies included in that offering so far, with Amazon's Luna+ channel  priced at $6 a month.And though Luna is similar to Google's Stadia platform in that users can play games from the cloud across PC and mobile devices, it diverges from the company's business model as players won't have to pay extra for individual games.Amazon also said Luna will be available Apple devices, but only as a web app. This is a step up from Microsoft and Google, which have been unable to add cloud gaming functionality on iPhones due to restrictions within Apple's App Store that require pre-approval for each game. Apple recently loosened its stance slightly, allowing game streaming services that link to games via separate apps. Apple has a competing game subscription service called Apple Arcade.Can Luna succeed?Amazon poses a significant threat to Microsoft and Google given its prowess in cloud computing. The firm's Amazon Web Services, or AWS, division is the biggest player in the space, with Microsoft's Azure trailing closely behind. Amazon also has a successful gaming brand in Twitch, the live streaming platform it bought for $970 million in 2014. The decision to integrate Luna with Twitch could drive growth for the cloud gaming offering.But does that mean it will be successful? Not necessarily. There are numerous hurdles for Amazon to overcome, not least the issue of finding enough content to make its service worth paying for. Google Stadia notably struggled on this front, launching with just 22 titles at launch, but has since gathered momentum as more games have been added."Unlike Microsoft and Sony, Amazon lacks the core games business — something that has been a huge hurdle to overcome for Google Stadia," George Jijiashvili, senior games analyst at market research firm Omdia, told CNBC.VIDEO1:4401:44Amazon unveils new products, including a home security droneNews Videos"Amazon has a wealth of experience in cloud infrastructure, but this does not guarantee success. Whilst AWS is clearly a huge advantage, this is only one dimension of the final offering, and the emerging features, content, Twitch integration, and monetisation models will determine the uptake of the service."While Twitch has been a boon to Amazon — especially in the midst of a viral pandemic that has seen viewership spike — the company has had less success in the development of its own games. Amazon pulled Crucible, its first big-budget game since the creation of Amazon Game Studios in 2012, from public release just a month after it launched. Another title, New World, has been delayed until early next year.Cloud gaming will no doubt be a key battleground for gaming companies in the coming years. According to Omdia, such streaming services are expected to generate $4 billion in revenues next year and a massive $12 billion by 2025. That's no insignificant chunk of an industry estimated to be worth more than $150 billion.

2020/10/07, VIDEO3:2203:22Former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on how Big Tech should react to House antitrust reportSquawk BoxFormer Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer told CNBC on Wednesday he's all but certain Congress won't break up Big Tech companies despite a House subcommittee report that found Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google hold monopoly power.Ballmer, who led Microsoft through an antitrust lawsuit in the early 2000s, also made some recommendations to those companies."If I'm in these guys' shoes, I say, come on, let's get down there and let's regulate me and let's get it over with so I know what I can do," Ballmer said in a "Squawk Box" interview.On Tuesday, the Democratic majority on the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust said the four tech titans need to be reined in by Congress and enforcers."I'll bet money that they will not be broken up," Ballmer told CNBC. "I also don't think the case of Apple is the same as Google is the same as Amazon," Ballmer added. "In a sense putting them all together makes good theater but it doesn't necessarily mean good policy." Referring to Microsoft's antitrust legal challenges over 20 years ago, Ballmer said, "Certainly what I learned as we were going through our antitrust issues in the early 2000s is that you can do things that seem 100% consistent with the law all along the way, but then if you wind up with a position that somebody deems a monopoly, life gets kind of crazy.""I would certainly recommend to all these tech companies to engage on the issues now, to engage with the regulators now," Ballmer added. "I do not think they can just take unilateral action and expect it to satisfy whatever it is some regulator or congressman will decide they should have done. The key is to engage."A judge ruled in 2000 that Microsoft violated antitrust laws by attempting to monopolize the web browser market by bundling Internet Explorer with Windows. The Justice Department said that gave Microsoft's browser an advantage over competitors such as Netscape Navigator and Opera. Microsoft appealed that ruling and settled with the DOJ in 2001.Though Ballmer said he was willing to "bet money" Big Tech won't be broken up, he said, "That doesn't mean, as in our case, somebody won't order them broken up before that gets pulled back" — referring to how Microsoft was ordered to split in half before it successfully settled with the Department of Justice.The House subcommittee looked into whether Facebook bought Instagram to eliminate a competitor as part of a larger concern over anti-competitive "killer acquisitions."  Said Ballmer: "Will acquisitions be looked at differently? Yeah, I believe that may happen." "But really forced to spin things out? As I read the concerns — just me as a non-antitrust lawyer reader — I read the concerns and I don't even think this notion of breaking them up answers most of the questions that people are raising, or many of the complaints they're raising," said Ballmer. VIDEO1:2101:21House antitrust subcommittee releases recommendations for Big TechClosing Bell

2020/08/21, In this articleMSFTMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella leaves the Elysee Palace after a meeting with the French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on May 23, 2018.Aurelien Morissard | IP3 | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is signing deals with foreign governments to offer cloud infrastructure packages similar to the bundle it assembled for the U.S. Defense Department, people familiar with the matter said.The Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, cloud offering for the Defense Department provides cloud-based computing and storage resources at all government security classification levels, as well as devices that can work offline until they sync back with cloud infrastructure. The Pentagon awarded the JEDI contract to Microsoft in October. The contract is worth up to $10 billion over 10 years.Outside the U.S., Microsoft has seen interest in the type of relationship that it has formed with the Pentagon, said one of the people. Specifically, Microsoft has committed to staffing the DOD initiative with people who hold sufficient government security clearances, and to delivering a group of existing products and services, as opposed to specially built technologies, at a customized price.Microsoft employees began work on cloud contracts for foreign governments after it became clear that the JEDI work would be put on hold because of a legal challenge from Amazon, Microsoft's main rival in cloud computing, this person said.The strategy shows that Microsoft hopes to keep widening its cloud infrastructure business by meeting public sector needs abroad while maintaining a tight collaboration with the Trump administration, which has helped broker a possible acquisition of part of the Chinese-owned social app TikTok.The company plans to announce the effort later this year, one person said, adding that intelligence agencies and militaries outside the U.S. might use it. Another person briefed on the work said Microsoft already has foreign cloud government contracts, despite that it has not announced the new strategy yet. It's not clear which countries Microsoft is most focused on.Microsoft shares rose more than 1% after-hours on the news. The company declined to comment directly on the matter but pointed generally to its government collaborations."We've worked with governments around the world on a longstanding and reliable basis for four decades," a spokesperson told CNBC in an email. "We have government customers using our products to enhance their services with the latest in commercial innovations, deeply engage and connect with citizens in powerful ways, and empower government employees with the modern tools they need to be more efficient and effective, and to give them time back to focus on their agency mission."In November Amazon Web Services filed suit in protest of the government awarding Microsoft the JEDI contract, and in February Judge Patricia Campbell-Smith imposed a temporary restraining order that blocked the contract from moving forward. In April Campbell-Smith gave the Pentagon permission to revisit its evaluation of Microsoft and Amazon's bids for the JEDI contract. The Pentagon expects to be done with the review by Sept. 16.AWS held 47% of the cloud infrastructure market in 2019, while Microsoft had 13%, according to estimates from industry research company IDC. Piper Sandler analysts led by Brent Bracelin, who have the equivalent of a buy rating on Microsoft stock, estimated that Microsoft had $5.93 billion in revenue from its Azure cloud in the second quarter. That would imply Azure contributed almost 16% of Microsoft's total revenue. Amazon said AWS revenue in the second quarter totaled $10.81 billion.International customers are more critical to Microsoft than in the past. In Microsoft's 2020 fiscal year, which ended on June 30, the company derived 51% of its revenue from customers located in the U.S., down from 71% in the 2002 fiscal year. Microsoft has won Azure business from some federal groups outside the U.S., including New Zealand's firefighting agency, France's space agency and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corp.Even as Microsoft looks outside its home country for government cloud business, Microsoft continues to ally itself with the U.S. as it seeks to acquire TikTok's operations in the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand from China-based ByteDance. On Aug. 2 Microsoft said its CEO, Satya Nadella, spoke with President Donald Trump about a transaction.WATCH: CNBC's full interview with former Microsoft CEO Steve BallmerVIDEO20:4220:42Watch CNBC's full interview with former Microsoft CEO Steve BallmerSquawk Box

2020/10/27, In this articleMSFTGOOGLVIDEO9:3609:36Microsoft investor reacts to quarterly earningsFast MoneyMicrosoft is forecasting a continued slowdown in its search ad revenue, which could spell bad news for Google parent Alphabet's earnings report on Thursday. Microsoft's latest results beat across the board, but the company saw a 10% year-over-year drop in search advertising revenue and reported continued decrease for its guidance for the next quarter, according to its fiscal first-quarter earnings statement released Tuesday.For the December quarter, in search excluding traffic acquisition cost "we expect revenue to decline in the mid-to-high single-digit range," Microsoft CFO Amy Hood said during an investor call Tuesday. That suggests a decline of 7% to 9%.Google's search engine is much more widely used than Microsoft's Bing, but the companies have shown similar trends in search advertising revenues.Last quarter, Microsoft's search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, decreased 18% as customers spent less on ads.That was a precursor to Alphabet reporting its first year-over-year quarterly revenue decline ever.Specifically, Google's Q2 revenue from search and other on-site ads (minus YouTube) dropped about 10% from a year earlier, from $23.64 billion to $21.32 billion. (Revenue from YouTube advertisements, which it began breaking out separately this year, grew from $3.6 billion to $3.81 billion.)Before that, Microsoft's search advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 1% in the quarter that ended March 31, which overlapped with the beginning of the pandemic.That quarter, Alphabet reported a 9% increase in revenue from search and other (minus YouTube) revenue, which jumped from $22.54 billion in 2019 to $24.50 billion in 2020.

2020/10/01, Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsMicrosoft Surface Laptop GoMicrosoftMicrosoft on Thursday announced a new affordable laptop, the Surface Laptop Go, which starts at $549. It's a compelling option for people at home right now who need a new computer and don't want to spend a lot of money. This is Microsoft's attempt to get new products out to consumers before the busy holiday shopping season — it also announced a tiny update to the Surface Pro X tablet from last year. Oddly, unlike in most recent years, Microsoft didn't announce a whole bunch of new products.There's still no news on its regular Surface Pro tablet/laptop hybrid, for example, and it didn't update its Surface Studio 2 desktop computer or provide an update on its delayed Surface Neo device.But the Surface Go seems neat. It's the smallest full-sized laptop Microsoft has launched, with a 12.4-inch display compared with the 13.5-inch screens it used on Microsoft's Surface Laptop 3 last year.You don't get a whole lot for that price, though. While the entry-level model comes with the latest Intel Core i5 processors, it also ships with just 64GB of storage and 4GB of RAM. That might be fine if you just want to surf the web, but you should plan to spend more to upgrade to at least 128GB of storage and 8GB of RAM so you can install and run more apps at the same time.Still, it's a move by Microsoft to try to undercut competitors like the MacBook Air, which starts at $999 but offers more far storage and a more premium design. The Surface Laptop Go is made out of plastic with an aluminum coating, while Apple's models are all aluminum.The Surface Laptop Go is available for preorder now and will be in stores beginning Oct. 13.VIDEO1:0901:09Here's what to know about Microsoft's new cloud communications tool AzurePower LunchSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/10/01, Pedestrians wearing protective masks walk past a Microsoft Technology Center in New York, on Wednesday, July 22, 2020.Jeenah Moon | Bloomberg via Getty ImagesMicrosoft is trying to fix a worldwide outage after a software "configuration update" left many users unable to access their Outlook email."We've received reports of users experiencing issues accessing their Exchange Online accounts via Outlook on the Web", an official Microsoft account tweeted early on Thursday morning.Several hours after users started to notice the outage, Microsoft said it had figured out the cause of the outage."We've determined that a recent configuration update to components that route user requests was the cause of impact," it said. "We've reverted the update and are monitoring the service for recovery."While Microsoft's initial investigation found that users in India were most affected, the company said the issue appeared to be affecting users worldwide. Users may experience problems with various Exchange Online protocols including Outlook desktop and mobile services, Microsoft said. The outage comes as increasing numbers of people are working remotely due to the coronavirus pandemic. Microsoft users vented their frustrations on social media as the outage left them unable to send and receive important emails.Adam Thomas wrote on Twitter: "Some businesses rely on a functional email service to conduct business, please try to work faster as I have emails expected today to do my own work."This is the second major Microsoft outage this week. On Tuesday, Microsoft had issues with Microsoft 365 services including Outlook and Teams.  It is unclear if the two outages are linked. 

2020/09/08, VIDEO1:1801:18Microsoft is launching its "smallest Xbox ever"—Here are the detailsNews VideosMicrosoft confirmed Tuesday that it is set to launch a smaller, cheaper version of its upcoming next-generation console.The company is currently gearing up for the release of its Xbox Series X device later this year, promising powerful specs and improved graphics quality in a bid to convince gamers to part with their cash for new gaming hardware.It will go head-to-head with Sony's PlayStation 5, or PS5, with both consoles expected to hit shelves ahead of the holidays. You can check out a breakdown of the main differences between the Xbox Series X and PS5 here.Microsoft teased the new device, called the Xbox Series S, in a tweet Tuesday. It said the Xbox Series S would be the "smallest Xbox ever" and cost $299. It later revealed that the console would debut on Nov. 10.The company added that the Xbox Series S is around 60% smaller than the Xbox Series X and won't come with a disc drive, meaning users will have to download or stream games and movies. Sony has done something similar with the PS5, with both standard and digital-only versions of the console set to be released this fall.For context, Microsoft has said the Xbox Series X will be four times more powerful than its predecessor, the Xbox One X. It'll come with an eight-core AMD Zen 2 processor — like the PS5 — but will have a better graphics card than Sony's rival machine.With the Xbox Series S, there are also some impressive specs — such as support for realistic so-called ray tracing graphics — but it will have less internal storage. Microsoft has been heavily marketing its Game Pass Ultimate subscription service, which is set to include a cloud-gaming feature that lets users stream games from their phone or tablet, from Sept. 15.Microsoft was plagued by leaks about the more affordable next-gen machine ahead of the announcement Tuesday. Windows Central — a publication that closely follows Microsoft news — reported overnight that the main Xbox Series X console would cost $499, while the Xbox Series S would come with a $299 price tag. Citing sources, Windows Central said that both consoles would have monthly financing options. Consumers would reportedly be able to buy an Xbox Series X for $35 per month or the Xbox Series S with a $25 a month plan. Microsoft said it had nothing further to share beyond its tweets Tuesday.It's the first time either of the major console manufacturers have disclosed any pricing details for their next-gen devices. Sony unveiled the PS5 for the first time in June, but didn't reveal any pricing or release date information. According to Windows Central, both of Microsoft's new consoles are set to launch on Nov. 10.VIDEO3:2003:20The average investor should be doing this during the coronavirus economic crisisInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.

2020/08/26, In this articleMSFTVIDEO2:4402:44TikTok is growing rapidly, even as it fights a U.S. government banTechMicrosoft's acquisition talks with TikTok and its Chinese parent company ByteDance "ballooned" this summer after President Donald Trump intervened, according to a report from The New York Times, citing people familiar with the situation. ByteDance is being forced to sell TikTok's U.S. business by the Trump administration, which says the app's current ties to China make it a national security threat. An executive order signed by Trump on Aug. 6 means a sale must go through before Sept. 15. However, TikTok sued the U.S. government on Monday, alleging it was deprived of due process. The lawsuit could delay the ban, giving TikTok more time to get a better deal for the sale.When the deal talks began, Microsoft is said to have been reluctant to do any kind of large TikTok acquisition, due in part to the rising tensions between the U.S. and China, according to the Times report. However, a minority stake in the wildly popular video sharing app was viewed positively as it may lead to TikTok ditching Google Cloud, which it currently uses, and signing up to Microsoft Azure, instantly making it one of Microsoft's largest cloud customers. TikTok could also be integrated with Microsoft's $7 billion advertising business. Microsoft issued a statement on Aug. 2 about its pursuit to buy TikTok's U.S. business. However, on Aug, 3, Trump said he'd rather Microsoft, valued at $1.6 trillion, purchase the app that is used by 100 million Americans in its entirety. "I think buying 30% is complicated," Trump told reporters in the Cabinet Room at the White House.There are now several other bidders competing with Microsoft, with the main one being enterprise software firm Oracle. Netflix and Twitter have also been contacted by bankers and investors, but it's not clear if they're interested, according to the Times. In any case, deal talks between the parties have "morphed into a big, messy, political soap opera," according to the report.As for the price of TikTok, that's anyone's guess, but estimates range from $20 billion to $50 billion, depending on which bits of the company are sold. CNBC's David Faber reported earlier this month that Microsoft was discussing a range of $10 billion to $30 billion to buy TikTok. A deal with Microsoft could boost the valuation of TikTok's business outside China to up to $80 billion, according to sources cited by The Times. It's worth noting that any deal that is agreed upon could easily be derailed by Washington or Beijing. Microsoft and TikTok declined to comment when contacted by CNBC. Read the full story in The New York Times here. VIDEO2:4402:44TikTok is growing rapidly, even as it fights a U.S. government banTech

2020/08/10, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella leaves the Elysee Palace after a meeting with the French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on May 23, 2018.Aurelien Morissard | IP3 | Getty ImagesIf Microsoft were to complete an acquisition of TikTok, it would gain a company with much potential for advertising revenue growth.But with such a purchase, Microsoft would also take on an entirely new slate of problems. Microsoft announced on Aug. 2 that it was in talks to purchase TikTok's business in the U.S., Australia and New Zealand, with a deadline to complete the deal by Sept. 15. The company is currently owned by Chinese tech company ByteDance and has become a target of the Trump Administration and other governments over privacy and security concerns. Trump also signed an executive order last week that would ban U.S. companies from doing business with TikTok, but it's unclear how that order could affect a potential acquisition by Microsoft.In the U.S., TikTok has grown to more than 100 million monthly users, many of whom are teens and young adults. Those users tune in to TikTok to see full-screen videos uploaded to the app by others. These videos often feature lip syncing over songs, flashy video editing and eye-catching, augmented-reality visual effects. To say that TikTok represents a business that is radically different than the enterprise software that Microsoft specializes in would be an understatement. For Microsoft, TikTok could become an advertising revenue powerhouse, but this potential is not without its own risk. Like other social apps, TikTok is a target for all kinds of problematic content that must be dealt with. This includes basic problems such as spam and scams, but more complicated content could also become headaches for Microsoft. This could include content such as misinformation, hoaxes, conspiracy theories, violence, prejudice and pornography, said Yuval Ben-Itzhak, CEO of Socialbakers, a social media marketing company. "Microsoft will need to deal with all of that and will be blamed and criticized when they fail to do so," Ben-Itzhak said. Microsoft declined to comment, and TikTok did not respond to a request for comment on this story.These challenges can be overcome, but they require large investments of capital and technical prowess, two things Microsoft is capable of providing. And already, Microsoft has some experience when it comes to moderating online communities.In 2016, Microsoft purchased LinkedIn for $26.2 billion, and although the career and professional-centric service does not have the degree of content issues its peers deal with, it is still a social network. Microsoft has also run Xbox Live, the online gaming service, since its launch in 2002. Online gaming and social media are different beasts, but they do share similarities."Combating misinformation will need to be a mission critical priority. Microsoft will be new to this as it doesn't have experience managing a high profile social network at this scale," said Daniel Elman, an analyst at Nucleus Research. "That said, if any company can acquire or quickly develop the requisite skills and capabilities, it is Microsoft."But these are no small challenges, and these types of problems have become major issues for TikTok's rivals. Facebook, for example, was accused of not doing enough to circumvent fake news and Russian misinformation ahead of the 2016 U.S. election, and four years later, the company still comes consistently under criticism about whether it is doing enough to prevent that type of content from appearing on its services. In July, hundreds of advertisers boycotted Facebook over its failure to contain the spread of hate speech and misinformation. Twitter, meanwhile, began to lose key users, such as comedian Leslie Jones, after the company let harassment run rampant on its social network. The company has spent the past couple of years building features to reduce the amount of hateful content users have to deal with in their mentions. These types of issues have already flared up on TikTok. Far-right activists, white nationalists and neo-Nazis have previously been reported on the app, according to Motherboard and the Huffington Post, which found some users who had already been banned by Facebook and Twitter.VIDEO3:2503:25Advertisers would be big winners in a Microsoft-TikTok deal, says Taboola CEOSquawk BoxTikTok's potential content problems, however, may be more similar to those of Google-owned YouTube. The two services depend on user-generated videos for content, and they both rely heavily on algorithms that learn a user's behavior to determine what kind of content to suggest next. "The issue with algorithm based content feeds is it generally degrades to the most salacious content that shows the highest engagement," said Mike Jones, managing partner of Los Angeles venture capital firm Science. "There is no doubt that as creators further understand how to drive additional views and attention on the site through algorithm manipulation, the content will increase in its salaciousness and will be a consistent battle that any owner will have to deal with."Another similarity with YouTube is the amount of content available on TikTok that is focused on minors. Although TikTok does not allow users younger than 13 to post on the app, many of its users are between the ages of 13 and 18, and their content can be easily viewed by others. For YouTube, the challenge of hosting content involving minors became a major issue in February 2019 when Wired discovered a network of pedophiles who were using the video service's recommendation features to find videos of minors exposed or in their underwear. With the number of young users on TikTok, it's not hard to imagine that Microsoft could wind up with a problem similar to Google's.YouTube has also become a cesspool for conspiracy theories, such as the idea that the Earth is flat. That too could become a problem on TikTok, and already, there is evidence of this. The conspiracy theory that Wayfair uses its furniture for child trafficking gained a particular amount of momentum on TikTok this year.To handle these problems, Microsoft would have to invest an immense amount of time and money on content moderation.For Facebook, this problem has been handled through a two-pronged strategy. The company continually invests in artificial intelligence technology that is capable of detecting bad content — such as pornography, content that contains violence or hate speech — and removing it from their services before it is ever viewed by other users.For more complicated content, Facebook also relies on thousands of human moderators. These moderators often work for Facebook through third-party vendors as contractors, and they are tasked with going through thousands of pieces of content per day in strenuous working conditions at risk of developing PTSD. These working conditions have come under criticism on numerous occasions, creating public-relations headaches for Facebook. If Microsoft acquired TikTok, it too would likely have to build up similar AI technology and build out a network of human moderators, all the while avoiding negative headlines for poor working conditions. TikTok offers Microsoft an immense amount of potential in the digital marketing sector, but along with all that upside will come numerous new challenges and responsibility that the company will have to take on. 

2020/08/03, In this photo illustration the logo of Chinese media app for creating and sharing short videos TikTok, also known as Douyin is displayed on the screen of an apple macbook pro computer on November 20, 2019 in Paris, France.Chesnot | Getty ImagesMicrosoft and the U.S. government have agreed to a six-week time frame to wrap up deal discussions around buying TikTok's U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand operations.That's not a lot of time to answer many questions that will be essential to getting a deal done.While the companies have been talking about a deal for weeks already, according to people familiar with the matter, there are still complicated questions around about technology, privacy, leadership, valuation and ownership. These topics need to be worked out not only between TikTok parent ByteDance and Microsoft, but also with the U.S. government. Three-way talks are never easy, especially when the Trump administration seemingly has conflicting ideas about whether or not TikTok should be banned. White House trade adviser Peter Navarro said yesterday he supports a ban and wasn't satisfied with Microsoft's intervention. South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham, a close confidant to Trump, defended the deal on Twitter. How will a split work, exactly?TikTok will have to operate with two different owners to satisfy the U.S. government. TikTok is currently a global application. Americans can watch videos from around the world, and American creators can have global audiences. If Microsoft operates the service for the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand only, what happens when an American watches a TikTok video from a user in Europe? Microsoft and ByteDance have discussed ways of keeping the application together so that users won't notice a difference."We will make every attempt to protect the platform's uniqueness, and hope that users can continue to have an uninterrupted experience," ByteDance said in a statement.But there are complicated technical questions that all three parties will have to figure out. The idea of splitting the company is to prevent the Chinese government from collecting data about U.S. citizens through TikTok. So how will Microsoft separate and store data from the parts of TikTok it controls, and what data will it have to share with the rest of the organization to keep the service running smoothly? What about all the data that's already been collected -- will that have to be separated based on country, who will oversee that separation, and how will they do it? Will Microsoft have to move TikTok's technical infrastructure over to its cloud services, how long will that take, and how much will it cost?Beyond data, what about the algorithms TikTok uses to decide which videos to promote to whom -- who will control those algorithms, and how will that control be split or negotiated?"The same product operated by different parties in different jurisdictions seems unprecedented," Michael Norris, a research and strategy manager at Shanghai-based consultancy AgencyChina, told CNBC in an interview. "These considerations, including compliant operating models and relevant transfers of technology, infrastructure, and access, will complicate acquisition negotiations."Making it even harder, the scope of the deal could continue shift based on regulatory concerns. Under current parameters, Microsoft would operate TikTok in four countries while ByteDance would operate it in more than 100 other countries. Given that the U.S. has agreed to the broad framework, it seems that at least some parties in the government are fine with this arrangement. But if attitudes shift, the deal could morph into a sale of all TikTok assets outside China.We also don't know how eager ByteDance will be to negotiate a sale it never wanted. While the company acknowledges it's been forced into sale talks to avoid a U.S. ban, it won't be eager to sell off even more of the company. "ByteDance aspires to be a transformative global company," ByteDance said in a statement. "CFIUS determined that ByteDance must fully divest TikTok's US operations. We disagree with CFIUS's conclusion because we have always been committed to user safety, platform neutrality, and transparency. However, we understand their decision in the current macro environment. To help resolve these issues, we initiated preliminary discussions with a tech company to help clear the way for us to continue offering the TikTok app in the U.S."Who will run TikTok at Microsoft?TikTok named former Disney executive Kevin Mayer as its new chief executive officer in February. Now, months later, he faces a potential forced sale of a portion of the company.Would Mayer continue to run the U.S.-plus portion of TikTok under Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella? Would he stay at ByteDance to run the remainder of the application? The latter seems unlikely given Mayer lives in southern California and was hired to improve content offerings and steward monetization opportunities in the U.S.Microsoft's expertise is enterprise software. It's unclear the company has someone on staff that would be a clear fit to run the company. If Mayer departed ByteDance to move with the U.S. operations of TikTok, ByteDance would then need a new CEO to run operations in the rest of the world.With Mayer so new to the job, Microsoft could bring in an external hand-picked CEO to run the assets.What's the price going to be?As the companies negotiate terms with the U.S. government, the structure of the deal will affect the price tag.Projecting TikTok's value is highly speculative at this point. Most of the value simply hasn't been created because the company is just started to put advertising mechanisms in place to capture user value. The Wall Street Journal reported the company projects it will have $1 billion in revenue this year and $6 billion next year.Shifting the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand away from the rest of the company will lower the price. Still, the deal will likely be in the tens of billions, according to a person familiar with the matter. The app has about 100 million American users, TikTok said last week, and the majority of its most-followed accounts are American."It's an exciting proposition for Microsoft," said Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's largest shareholder and former CEO, in an interview with CNBC Monday. "Obviously it depends on the price as well as whatever restrictions come with it from a government perspective." Who else might invest?Microsoft made a particular point to say it was open to inviting "other American investors to participate on a minority basis" in the TikTok deal.Microsoft doesn't need the money. It's possible Microsoft is keeping the door open for current investors in ByteDance, such as SoftBank Group, Sequoia, General Atlantic, Tiger Global Management, KKR, and NEA to roll over their investments. The company could also be open to taking money from other strategic investors, such as big media companies, who may want a piece of TikTok and could provide expertise in other areas.Owning a piece of TikTok would be enticing for a lot of companies. The video-sharing application is poised for a huge spike in valuation if it can pull off its advertising integration. Could another bidder swoop in?Finally, Microsoft was close to ironing out a structure for a deal over the weekend. Now the deadline on a deal is Sept. 15. Could the framework ByteDance worked out with Microsoft lead to another buyer making an offer for TikTok? Would the U.S. government be amenable to any company other than Microsoft getting a deal done? There are only so many companies that could easily afford TikTok. And some of those companies -- such as Amazon, Apple and Google -- just testified in front of Congress Wednesday for potentially having too much power over American consumers. Nonetheless, it's rare that a consumer technology asset with as much upside as TikTok comes on the market, so other companies could certainly kick the tires. WATCH: CNBC's full interview with former Microsoft CEO Steve BallmerVIDEO20:4220:42Watch CNBC's full interview with former Microsoft CEO Steve BallmerSquawk Box

2020/11/24, Larry Culp, CEO, General ElectricScott Mlyn | CNBC(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Tuesday:

2020/09/04, In this articleMSFTPresident Donald Trump speaks with Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer of Microsoft, and Jeff Bezos, Chief Executive Officer of Amazon during an American Technology Council roundtable in the State Dinning Room at the White House in Washington on June 19, 2017.Jabin Botsford | The Washington Post | Getty ImagesThe Pentagon said Friday it will stick with Microsoft for a major cloud contract that has been disputed in court for months.The JEDI, or Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, deal has become one of the most hotly contested contracts for the Department of Defense. The contract is intended to modernize the Pentagon's colossal IT infrastructure and could be valued up to $10 billion for services rendered over as many as 10 years."The Department has completed its comprehensive re-evaluation of the JEDI Cloud proposals and determined that Microsoft's proposal continues to represent the best value to the Government," the Pentagon said in a statement. "The JEDI Cloud contract is a firm-fixed-price, indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract that will make a full range of cloud computing services available to the DoD. While contract performance will not begin immediately due to the Preliminary Injunction Order issued by the Court of Federal Claims on February 13, 2020, DoD is eager to begin delivering this capability to our men and women in uniform."The outcome represents a loss for Amazon, which challenge the award of the contract after the Pentagon gave it to Microsoft in October.Amazon said in a scathing blog post Friday that it will continue to seek a review of the situation and that the Pentagon's re-evaluation of the companies' proposals simply validated the original decision to go with Microsoft."On JEDI, President Trump reportedly ordered former Secretary Mattis to 'screw' Amazon, blatantly interfered in an active procurement, directed his subordinate to conduct an unorthodox 'review' prior to a contract award announcement and then stonewalled an investigation into his own political interference," Amazon wrote."While corrective action can be used to efficiently resolve protests, in reality, this corrective action changed nothing, wasted five months that could have been spent getting to the bottom of these serious concerns, and was designed solely to distract from our broader concerns and reaffirm a decision that was corrupted by the President's self-interest."Microsoft shares briefly moved higher during Friday's trading session following the announcement before closing down 1.4% for the day in a mostly down day for tech stocks."We appreciate that after careful review, the DoD confirmed that we offered the right technology and the best value. We're ready to get to work and make sure that those who serve our country have access to this much needed technology," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email.In November, Amazon Web Services, Amazon's cloud computing unit, filed a lawsuit in the Court of Federal Claims protesting the JEDI decision. The company argued that President Donald Trump's bias against Amazon and its CEO, Jeff Bezos, influenced the Pentagon to give the contract to Microsoft. Amid the legal battle, the Pentagon invited Amazon and Microsoft to revise and resubmit their proposals for the contract. A Justice Department representative was not immediately available for comment following the Pentagon's statement.VIDEO0:5600:56Microsoft's Jedi Cloud proposal represents best value: PentagonPower LunchToday's decision could lead to more legal wrangling.The lucrative contract, originally scheduled to be awarded in September 2018, drew scrutiny after Trump said last year that he was seriously considering taking a look at the JEDI contract."I never had something where more people are complaining," Trump told reporters at the White House in July 2019. "Some of the greatest companies in the world are complaining about it," he added, naming IBM, Microsoft and Oracle. The White House declined to comment.Trump's potential influence over the deal came into focus when a book charting then-Defense Secretary James Mattis' tenure at the Pentagon claimed the president told Mattis to "screw Amazon" out of the contract.The billionaire executive, who owns the Washington Post, has become a source of frustration for Trump. The president regularly criticizes the publication for its coverage of his administration. Trump has also gone after Amazon repeatedly for, as he claims, not paying its fair share of taxes and ripping off the U.S. Post Office.Earlier this year, the Pentagon's inspector general released a report saying that the award did not appear to be influenced by the White House.However, the inspector general noted in its 313-page April report that it had limited cooperation from White House officials throughout its review and, as a result, it could not complete its assessment of allegations of ethical misconduct.Read more: Pentagon watchdog says White House didn't influence decision to deny Amazon $10 billion cloud contractAt the time, Department of Defense spokesperson Lt. Col. Robert Carver told CNBC in a statement that the inspector general's report confirmed the Pentagon's JEDI cloud procurement process was conducted "fairly and in accordance with the law."An AWS spokesperson suggested at the time that the report did not reveal all that much."It's clear that this report couldn't assess political interference because several DoD witnesses were instructed by the White House not to answer the IG's questions about communications between the White House and DoD officials," the spokesperson wrote in an email to CNBC. "The White House's refusal to cooperate with the IG's investigation is yet another blatant attempt to avoid a meaningful and transparent review of the JEDI contract award."In December, Amazon's AWS chief Andy Jassy told CNBC that the cloud contract was not adjudicated fairly."You know, there was significant political interference here," Jassy said of the JEDI award in a conversation with CNBC's Jon Fortt. "When you have a sitting president who's willing to be very vocal that they dislike a company and the CEO of that company, it makes it difficult for government agencies, including the DoD to make objective decisions without fear of reprisal. And I think that's dangerous and risky for our country."

2020/10/14, VIDEO2:3102:31Bill Gates on regulating Big Tech: 'We're in uncharted territory'Squawk BoxMicrosoft co-founder and former CEO Bill Gates told CNBC Wednesday morning he had been naive about the government scrutiny that comes with getting large when he was running Microsoft and said the chance of Big Tech antitrust regulation is "pretty high.""Whenever you get to be a super-valuable company, affecting the way people communicate and even political discourse being mediated through your system and higher percentage of commerce — through your system — you're going to expect a lot of government attention," Gates said in the "Squawk Box" interview.Last week, the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust released a report concluding that Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google hold monopoly power."I was naive at Microsoft and didn't realize that our success would lead to government attention," Gates said, referring to Microsoft's antitrust challenges from more than 20 years ago. "And so I made some mistakes — you know, just saying, 'Hey, I never go to Washington, D.C.' And now I don't think, you know, that naivete is there."Gates stepped down as Microsoft CEO in the middle of the U.S. Justice Department's antitrust case, which charged the company had tried to monopolize the web browser market when it bundled Internet Explorer with Windows. The company settled with the DOJ in 2001.  Gates' successor at the time, Steve Ballmer, recommended on CNBC last week that Big Tech companies should go to Washington and proactively engage with regulators, but also said he would "bet money" Congress won't break them up."The rules will change somewhat," Gates said in contrast about the possibility of future regulation. "I'd say the chances of them doing something is pretty high.""We have to get the particulars," said Gates when asked about the risk of additional regulation cutting down on innovation. "Is there some rule about acquisition? Is there some rule about splitting parts of the companies, either — to create open availability of those resources?"Anti-competitive "killer acquisitions" was one of the House subcommittee's concerns, and the report looked into whether Facebook acquired Instagram to eliminate a competitor. Splitting up such acquisitions may be one possibility of future regulation."We're in uncharted territory here," said Gates.  VIDEO22:3822:38Watch CNBC's full interview with Bill Gates on U.S. coronavirus responseSquawk Box

2020/08/12, Microsoft Surface DuoMicrosoftMicrosoft on Wednesday announced that the Surface Duo will launch on Sept. 10 starting at $1,399.99.The Surface Duo, as a quick refresher, is Microsoft's two-screened Android phone that was first announced in October 2019. It allows you to run two apps side-by-side in different screens that are split by a 360-degree hinge. It's one of the most exciting devices coming out in the coming months, since it offers a totally new type of form factor for a phone.It's also Microsoft's very latest attempt at the smartphone market, where it hasn't had much success since the iPhone launched. Earlier Microsoft devices largely failed because they didn't have access to a huge ecosystem of apps for Microsoft's now-defunct mobile operating system. Microsoft seems to have learned from those past mistakes and is smartly using Android on the Surface Duo. That means it will have access to all Android apps at launch, and some will be super-powered to take better advantage of the two screens.Microsoft Surface DuoMicrosoftMicrosoft's big argument here is that people need phones with two screens. All of the Office 365 apps will automatically span to provide more content when they're opened across both displays. In Outlook, for example, you'll see your inbox on one side and a detailed view of each message on the right. It's also working with other companies to help build apps that use both screens on the Surface Duo. Amazon Kindle has been updated to let the device function like a book, with pages on both sides. Microsoft said it also worked with Spotify. With the 360-degree hinge, you can prop it up to watch TV. Or, you can pick it up again and watch YouTube on one side and open Slack (or Microsoft Teams or anything else you want) on the other side. These are all new use-cases that seem compelling, especially in Microsoft's demos, but which Microsoft will need to prove are worth $1,399.99.Microsoft Surface DuoMicrosoftThe screens, at least on paper, appear to have sharp resolutions and were specially designed by Microsoft to run side-by-side and maintain the same color accuracy. Inside, it has Qualcomm's high-end Snapdragon 855 processor, though most devices have moved on to a newer Snapdragon 865+ version. It supports 4G LTE, but not the next-generation 5G networks that you may want in a device if you're planning to keep it for a few years. And while it has a fingerprint reader for unlocking the phone, it lacks NFC for mobile payments while you're out shopping. There's no wireless charging.It's a tough time to launch a gadget that costs that much.The U.S. unemployment rate is 10.2% and the Surface Duo is priced more than some laptops. It's as expensive as a new flagship phone, though without the latest processor and cellular technology you come to expect from it. On the other hand, with more people at home, people may be looking for new devices to take advantage of the time working from the couch, outside or with family. Microsoft Surface DuoMicrosoftThe Surface Duo will be sold directly through Microsoft's website, from Best Buy and by AT&T. A more expensive $1,499.99 version will include 256GB of storage instead of the 128GB in the starting model.VIDEO5:0205:02First look at Microsoft's new folding phone the Surface DuoTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/08/03, In this articleMSFTVIDEO3:5203:52Microsoft's interest in TikTok is 'exciting,' says former CEO Steve BallmerSquawk BoxFormer Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer told CNBC on Monday the company's pursuit of TikTok is "exciting" and that it's well-equipped to deal with any regulatory issues that would come with it.Microsoft confirmed in a blog post Sunday it has held talks with the social media app's China-based parent company ByteDance to buy its business in the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand. President Donald Trump has threatened to ban the app over national security concerns, and lawmakers have moved to restrict it from government-issued devices. On Friday, Trump said he opposed the potential deal, but Microsoft said in its post that CEO Satya Nadella spoke with Trump and intends to finish talks with ByteDance by Sept. 15."Obviously it depends on the price," Ballmer said in a "Squawk Box" interview. "Price is important as well as whatever restrictions come with it from a government perspective, but I think it's an exciting avenue for Microsoft to really increase its consumer base."Ballmer is still Microsoft's largest shareholder, and shares were up more than 4% in early trading Monday.While Microsoft has made its mark with enterprise products in recent years, Ballmer recalled that its roots are as a consumer-facing business. "There [are] successes and failures in the consumer business, and I think it's important to remember you've got to keep trying new things in order to build new businesses," he said.VIDEO3:4403:44Ben Boxer: How I started a successful YouTube channel reviewing technologyInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.Still, acquiring TikTok would likely rekindle regulatory scrutiny of Microsoft. Following its landmark antitrust case at the turn of the century, Microsoft has largely avoided the intense scrutiny placed on consumer-facing tech companies Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google in recent years. Those four companies' CEOs testified at a hearing in front of the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust last week, and Microsoft was notably absent. Microsoft President Brad Smith reportedly talked to the subcommittee about its experience with antitrust regulators and concerns with Apple's App Store, according to The Information.Though Slack recently filed an a competition complaint against Microsoft in the European Union, Microsoft has seemed to mostly fly under the radar in the United States.Based on his experience navigating Microsoft's U.S. antitrust case, Ballmer said his former company would be prepared for any scrutiny regarding TikTok."Even on the enterprise business, there's always issues of national sovereignty — where do you store data and the like?" he said. "This would be a continuation of a theme, and I think Microsoft's got a real sophistication about that borne of a history and a track record of having to work with governments and understanding that government is part of the fabric of everything."Ballmer said it would be hard to argue that Microsoft's relationship with China is too close."If Microsoft was tight and cozy with the Chinese government, Microsoft's business would be bigger in China," he said. "If the Chinese market was as piracy-free as the rest of the world, if the Chinese market was as accepting of Microsoft's enterprise services as the rest of the world, Microsoft would be really, I think, quite a bit bigger."Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: The U.S. is looking at banning TikTok—Here's what you should knowVIDEO1:4201:42The U.S. is looking at banning TikTok—Here's what you should knowNews Videos

2020/08/27, VIDEO1:4101:41Walmart says it's teaming up with Microsoft for TikTok bidSquawk AlleyWalmart said Thursday that it's teaming up with Microsoft in a bid for TikTok.The retail giant confirmed to CNBC that it's interested in buying the popular short-form video application.Walmart shares hit a 52-week high of $139.35 on Thursday. At the close, they were up nearly 5% to $136.63, bringing the company's market cap to almost $387 billion.TikTok's Beijing-based parent company, ByteDance, is nearing an agreement to sell its U.S., Canadian, Australian and New Zealand operations in a deal that's likely to be in the $20 billion to $30 billion range, sources say. It has not yet chosen a buyer, but could announce the deal in coming days, the sources say.With Walmart's confirmation, it joins several others trying to acquire the tech company, including Oracle.Walmart spokesman Randy Hargrove declined to say how the two companies would split ownership of TikTok, if they had the winning bid, and whether the retailer would be the majority owner.Walmart is pursuing the acquisition at a time when it's trying to better compete with Amazon. It plans to launch a membership program, called Walmart+, soon. The subscription-based service is the retailer's answer to Amazon Prime, which includes original TV shows and movies.In a statement, the big-box retailer said TikTok's integration of e-commerce and advertising "is a clear benefit to creators and users in those markets." It did not say how it would use TikTok or whether it would be part of Walmart+."We believe a potential relationship with TikTok US in partnership with Microsoft could add this key functionality and provide Walmart with an important way for us to reach and serve omnichannel customers as well as grow our third-party marketplace and advertising businesses," it said. "We are confident that a Walmart and Microsoft partnership would meet both the expectations of US TikTok users while satisfying the concerns of US government regulators."The deal, if approved, would give Walmart and Microsoft access to hundreds of millions of consumers who could buy their products or become a lucrative audience for ads. In a filing this week, TikTok said it has nearly 100 million monthly active U.S. users. That's up nearly 800% from January 2018.Daniel Ives, managing director and technology analyst at Wedbush Securities, described TikTok as "a huge shot in the arm" for Walmart's e-commerce business."When you think right now about going up against the 800-pound gorilla, Amazon, obviously they've been behind the eight ball," he said. "But Walmart could use this as a golden opportunity to partner with Microsoft and monetize the TikTok base, which could start to rival Instagram in the next few years just given its global presence."He gave the bid an 85% to 90% chance of going through.On Walmart's recent earnings call, CEO Doug McMillon did not say when Walmart+ would launch or which perks it would include, but he acknowledged the buzz around it. He said the membership program will speed up deliveries for customers through curbside pickup and delivery, strengthen relationships with them, and collect valuable data.Walmart had previously worked on a deal with SoftBank, but that bid faced resistance from the U.S. government because it did not include a cloud technology backbone component, people familiar with the matter said.With Microsoft involved, Walmart could be better positioned. Two years ago, Walmart announced a five-year cloud deal with Microsoft. The retailer adopted Microsoft's Azure cloud infrastructure and a bundle that includes the Office 365 productivity applications. TikTok was pushed to look for a buyer after U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in July that he was considering banning TikTok and other Chinese applications for security reasons. The U.S. government said it's concerned the Chinese government can access user data collected by TikTok.The Pentagon banned TikTok from government-issued mobile devices in January. The U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate followed suit this summer. President Donald Trump joined calls for the app's ban. His presidential campaign urged people with ads on Facebook and Instagram to sign a petition.Trump signed an executive order on Aug. 6, alleging China may potentially have access to "Americans' personal and proprietary information" through data collected by TikTok. The app has repeatedly denied those allegations. It says its user data is stored in the U.S., with a backup in Singapore, and its data centers are not located in China.On Thursday, TikTok CEO Kevin Mayer quit the company, citing political pressure and the forced sale. He announced his departure just months after starting in the role."I understand that the role that I signed up for—including running TikTok globally—will look very different as a result of the US Administration's action to push for a sell off of the US business," he said in the memo obtained by CNBC.— CNBC's Alex Sherman and Jordan Novet contributed to this story.VIDEO1:1601:16TikTok sale could come in next 48 hours: SourcesSquawk on the Street

2020/12/22, People walk by a T-Mobile store in San Francisco, CaliforniaJustin Sullivan | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Tuesday:

2020/08/19, In this articleORCLVIDEO5:4205:42Oracle joins Microsoft, Twitter in the battle for TikTok. Traders on what's nextTrading NationTikTok is taking center stage.The social media platform, a subsidiary of Chinese technology company ByteDance, is now the subject of a bidding war with the Trump administration's deadline to ban the app in the United States looming.Oracle shares climbed more than 2% on Tuesday on anonymously sourced reports that the technology company had begun talks to buy TikTok's U.S., Canadian, Australian and New Zealand assets.That pits Oracle against Microsoft, which has been racing to finish its negotiations with the most popular app in China ahead of the Sept. 15 deadline. Twitter was also rumored to have held preliminary deal talks.While all this is "fascinating" to witness, "the best play is to grab some popcorn and just sit on the sidelines and just observe," Quint Tatro, founder and chief investment officer at Joule Financial, told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Tuesday.For one, Oracle may be slightly overeager, Tatro said."I quite honestly have no idea what they're doing," he said. "I really liked this company. I thought they were turning a corner moving into the cloud computing, cloud service business, but then … they've levered up their balance sheet and now they're expressing this desire to veer completely out of their lane. I don't like it. I'd stay away."To Tatro, the likeliest winner of any kind of bidding war would be Microsoft — but that wasn't his favorite of the bunch either.Even though he didn't see Twitter as a viable candidate, he found the most to like about that stock out of TikTok's three potential suitors."When you're looking for sort of this under-the-radar stock that could make you some money, Twitter's interesting," he said. "They've got $7.8 billion in cash on hand, and despite a terrible quarter, they were able to see free cash flow increase by [$]39 million in Q2. They've got a very strong balance sheet and ... they are seeing their international revenues accelerate, catching up to and probably going to outpace the U.S. So while they're getting a lot of these potentially negative United States headlines, they're killing it overseas. So, we like Twitter here."Todd Gordon, managing director at Ascent Wealth Partners, agreed that without a consumer business, Oracle doesn't seem like a top fit for TikTok."We think Microsoft is a better suitor," Gordon said in the same "Trading Nation" interview. "They're very big in mobile. … They're involved in LinkedIn. This would be a nice competitor to Snapchat, Facebook and so on. TikTok would provide Microsoft a lot of data in the young user base for sort of the next-gen trends and interest, and they already have street credit ... with the Xbox."Microsoft also has limited exposure to businesses such as advertising that were impacted by the pandemic, Gordon said.Better yet, the chart shows a strong monthly uptrend with few signs of momentum loss, he said.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwards"However, Microsoft has begun to lag the Nasdaq," Gordon said. "We think that could be sort of a slowing in the Azure cloud growth, a little bit of a consolidation. We think ultimately that pushes higher. So, we like the Microsoft side of it."Microsoft shares closed just over half of 1% higher on Tuesday and are up 34% year to date. Oracle shares are up just 4% for the year. Twitter shares, which closed practically flat on Tuesday, are up almost 19% year to date.Disclosure: Tatro and Joule Financial own shares of Twitter. Ascent Wealth Partners owns shares of Microsoft.Disclaimer

2020/12/21, In this articleIBMIBM's logo seen displayed on a smartphone.Rafael Henrique | SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty ImagesLONDON – IBM announced Monday that it has acquired Finnish cloud consulting services provider Nordcloud for an undisclosed sum as it looks to gain an advantage in the increasingly fierce cloud wars.Founded in 2011 and headquartered in Helsinki, Finland, Nordcloud has a current turnover of around 50 million euros ($61 million) and over 450 employees, according to its LinkedIn page.Cloud computing refers to when companies and individuals use someone else's computer servers to perform a task on their machine, or store some data in a place that isn't their hard drive. Hybrid cloud is the term used to define a combination of cloud environments including public, private and on-premise. IBM said the acquisition will "turbocharge" its hybrid cloud consulting ability.John Granger, senior vice president and chief operating officer at IBM Global Business Services, said in a statement: "IBM's acquisition of Nordcloud adds the kind of deep expertise that will drive our clients' digital transformations as well as support the further adoption of IBM's hybrid cloud platform."He added: "Nordcloud's cloud-native tools, methodologies and talent send a strong signal that IBM is committed to deliver our clients' successful journey to cloud."VIDEO3:5803:58IBM President on cloud computing competition and 'quantum safe' encryptionSquawk AlleyThe cloud market has boomed over the last few years and analysts at Gartner and IDC think professional cloud services will be a $200 billion market by 2024.However, IBM faces stiff competition from the likes of Microsoft, Amazon Web Services, and Google. It has been trying to rebrand itself as a hip cloud stock recently, and last year it acquired open source software provider Red Hat for $34 billion."IBM's hybrid cloud approach is very complementary with our cloud-native approach to helping clients migrate, manage and modernize in the cloud," said Fernando Herrera, Chairman and Founder of Nordcloud, in a statement."As an experienced partner in today's cloud ecosystems, we work with all of the public cloud providers for the good of our clients throughout Europe. I am very excited to embrace IBM's open innovation mindset and help grow its global footprint."

2020/12/21, A shopper who refused to wear a mask is seen leaving a Walmart store in Bradford, Pennsylvania, U.S. July 20, 2020.Brendan McDermid | Reuters(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Monday:

2020/10/22, Brian Goldner CEO of HasbroAdam Jeffery | CNBC(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Ahead of a busy week of earnings, Wall Street analysts said there are a bunch of stocks that investors should add to their portfolio.So far this season, 135 companies in the S&P 500 have reported quarterly results. Of those, about 84% have topped expectations, according to Refinitiv.CNBC Pro combed through recent Wall Street research to find buying opportunities heading into earnings.

2020/08/07, A customer plays on an Xbox xCloud device at the Microsoft store opening on July 11, 2019 in London, England.Peter Summers | Getty ImagesMicrosoft and Facebook have lashed out at Apple for restrictive App Store policies, which they say prevent them from launching gaming services on iPhones and other Apple devices.Earlier this week, Microsoft said it would be launching its xCloud gaming service as part of a subscription service called Xbox Game Pass Ultimate on Sept. 15. But the app, which lets users jump into an Xbox game on their smartphone or tablet, will only be available on devices powered by Google's Android mobile operating system, not Apple's iOS.Microsoft also said it would no longer be offering a limited testing version of the app on iOS. The platform Microsoft had designed for Apple devices only supported one game, which Microsoft said was because of Apple's App Store policies. Microsoft now says it would be unable to launch its game streaming service commercially on iOS due to these restrictions."Unfortunately, we do not have a path to bring our vision of cloud gaming with Xbox Game Pass Ultimate to gamers on iOS via the Apple App Store," a Microsoft spokesperson said in a statement Friday. "Apple stands alone as the only general purpose platform to deny consumers from cloud gaming and game subscription services like Xbox Game Pass. And it consistently treats gaming apps differently, applying more lenient rules to non-gaming apps even when they include interactive content."They added that Microsoft was "committed" to bringing cloud gaming to the iOS platform.Facebook finally managed to launch an iOS version of its gaming app on Friday. But the social network said it was forced to make a concession to bring it to the App Store: It had to remove the ability to play games instantly. The Facebook Gaming app, launched in Google Play in April, allows people to create and stream live gaming content and is seen as a competitor to Amazon's Twitch livestreaming platform."Unfortunately, we had to remove gameplay functionality entirely in order to get Apple's approval on the standalone Facebook Gaming app – meaning iOS users have an inferior experience to those using Android," Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg said in a statement Friday. "We're staying focused on building communities for the more than 380 million people who play games on Facebook every month — whether Apple allows it in a standalone app or not."Apple said it has many apps in the App Store that distribute games, including the main Facebook app. On the situation with Microsoft, the company said its guidelines mean that app developers must submit every game individually for review. Microsoft's cloud gaming service has a library of more than 100 titles.VIDEO3:2603:26Video game streaming is surging as millions are cooped up inside their homesNews VideosThe iPhone maker has come under increased scrutiny over its App Store rules, which regulators are worried enable anti-competitive practices. It is the subject of an antitrust investigation from the European Union, and was questioned by U.S. lawmakers in a congressional antitrust hearing last month with CEO Tim Cook and the bosses of Google, Facebook and Amazon.Microsoft is not the first to face roadblocks in launching cloud gaming services on Apple devices. Google's Stadia and Nvidia's GeForce have also found trouble with launching iOS versions of their apps due to the App Store's guidelines."There is quite a lot of pressure building from different entities, and they are attempting to build consumer awareness of the issues involved as a way to convince Apple to change its policies," Piers Harding-Rolls, research director of games at Ampere Analysis, told CNBC. "Is it inevitable that Apple will cave in? Not necessarily. Apple is ploughing its own path with privacy and how it wants to manage its ecosystem."Apple has its own gaming service that competes with game subscription offerings from the likes of Microsoft, Google and Nvidia, called Apple Arcade+. The service includes a catalog of games from Konami, Ubisoft and Lego. Microsoft once had its own Twitch-like game streaming service called Mixer but recently decided to close it down, encouraging users to switch over to Facebook Gaming.

2020/08/11, Visitors play video games at the Xbox stand during 2020 China International Cartoon and Game Expo (CCG Expo) at Shanghai World Expo Exhibition and Convention Center on July 16, 2020 in Shanghai, China.Zhou You | Visual China Group | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said Tuesday that its new Xbox Series X will launch in November and that one of the flagship games for it, the first-person shooter title "Halo Infinite," will be delayed until sometime in 2021.The announcement could affect the timing of demand for Microsoft's next-generation hardware, as well as revenue from gaming content. It's one area where Microsoft continues to court consumers, alongside Windows, advertising and PCs. Microsoft's Xbox Series X will compete directly with the Sony PlayStation 5, which is expected to launch around the same time.Gaming represented 8% of total revenue in Microsoft's 2020 fiscal year, which ended on June 30. It was up just 1.7% from the prior year as people awaited a successor to the Xbox One from 2013.With the new Series X, Microsoft is also promoting its new Xbox Game Pass subscription, which will allow people to stream Xbox games to their Android phones and other devices directly from the cloud. Gamers won't necessarily even need to own the new console to play some of the games that will be available for it — though that will offer the best in-home experience on a big screen TV. Xbox Game Pass costs $14.99 a month and will include access to more than 100 games when it launches on Sept. 15.Microsoft and Sony have not disclosed the cost of their new consoles."We have made the difficult decision to shift our release to 2021 to ensure the team has adequate time to deliver a Halo game experience that meets our vision," Chris Lee, studio head for the game at 343 Industries, one of Microsoft's game-development studios, said in a statement posted on Twitter. Lee said releasing the game in time for the holiday season was not in the best interest of the team or the title.The first version of Halo debuted with the original Xbox console in 2001. Microsoft revealed gameplay from "Halo Infinite" alongside other games last month. "Halo Infinite" will become available on Windows 10 and the Xbox One in addition to the Xbox Series X, 343 Industries said in a blog post.WATCH: Sony and Microsoft are waiting to see who blinks first on console pricing: AnalystVIDEO6:0806:08Sony and Microsoft waiting to see who blinks first on console pricing: AnalystSquawk Box Asia

2020/10/21, In this articleZMMSFTWORKStewart Butterfield, chief executive officer of Slack Technologies Inc., right, with Allen Shim, chief financial officer of Slack Technologies, Inc., on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) during the company's initial public offering (IPO) in New York, U.S., on Thursday, June 20, 2019.Michael Nagle | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesWhatever benefits Slack saw in the early days of the coronavirus pandemic appear to have dissipated because large companies are choosing rival collaboration products, according to Morgan Stanley.Slack shares closed down 6.3% after Morgan Stanley analysts downgraded the stock to the equivalent of a sell rating and said the company is losing out to Microsoft and Zoom."Massive work from home demand for collaboration tools may end up doing more harm than good for Slack," wrote the analysts, who have a $27 price target on the stock. "We see higher risk at current levels."In late March, Slack CEO Stewart Butterfield published a lengthy thread on Twitter about how rapidly the world of work was changing. It included details about Slack's customer growth and his view that a market transition the company expected to occur "over 5-7 years just got fast-forwarded by 18 months."The stock jumped 17% that day and continued rising into early June. But quarterly results showed that Slack wasn't seeing the type of acceleration that Zoom was experiencing. According to Morgan Stanley, Zoom has gained "ubiquity" in video, while at the same time Microsoft has been making Teams, which competes directly with Slack, easily accessible to its massive customer base.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsSlack vs. Zoom and Microsoft this yearCNBC"In many cases, Slack did not have the opportunity to properly pitch its differentiation, and in our view, the customers that have standardized on Microsoft Teams are not looking back," wrote the Morgan Stanley analysts.In addition to heavy competition from Microsoft and Zoom's developing of more products around video, Slack also faces pressure from Google and the "long tail of collaboration vendors," they wrote.Since peaking on June 3, Slack's stock has dropped 28%, while Zoom has more than doubled and Microsoft has gained 16%.WATCH: Slack, Box and Okta CEOs at CNBC @Work SummitVIDEO24:0324:03Meeting of the Minds - Slack, Box & Okta CEOs at CNBC @Work SummitAt Work

2020/07/22, In this article4397.T-JPStewart Butterfield, co-founder and CEO of Slack, waits to do a television interview after ringing the opening bell the New York Stock Exchange in New York on June 20, 2019.Drew Angerer | Getty ImagesSlack filed a complaint against Microsoft with the European Commission alleging anticompetitive behavior, the company said on Wednesday. Slack alleges in the complaint that Microsoft abused its market dominance to eliminate competition for its Teams work communication product by tying it to its popular Office productivity suite. Slack claims that move meant millions were forced to install the app without the ability to remove it. Slack runs a service that competes directly with Microsoft Teams.Slack's stock fell 5.1% Wednesday and Microsoft's rose 1.4%.In a statement, a Microsoft spokesperson said, "We created Teams to combine the ability to collaborate with the ability to connect via video, because that's what people want. With Covid-19, the market has embraced Teams in record numbers while Slack suffered from its absence of video-conferencing. We're committed to offering customers not only the best of new innovation, but a wide variety of choice in how they purchase and use the product. We look forward to providing additional information to the European Commission and answering any questions they may have." A spokesperson for the EU Competition Commission confirmed it received the complaint and said in a statement, "We will assess it under our standard procedures."The complaint stems from previous frustrations at Slack. CEO Stewart Butterfield told The Verge in an interview in May, "Microsoft is perhaps unhealthily preoccupied with killing us, and Teams is the vehicle to do that." Still, Butterfield told CNBC earlier that month that "Teams is not a competitor to Slack," even though a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission names Microsoft as Slack's "primary competitor."On a call with reporters following the announcement, Slack Vice President of Communications and Policy Jonathan Prince said Butterfield's past comments were meant to highlight the different propositions of Slack and Teams, and noted Microsoft also lists Slack as a competitor in SEC filings.Microsoft has largely avoided scrutiny from antitrust authorities in recent years after the landmark case against the company brought by states and the Justice Department around the turn of the century. In that case, U.S. officials accused Microsoft of maintaining a monopoly by bundling its browser, Internet Explorer, to its Windows operating system. Prosecutors argued that this limited the marketplace for competing browsers for Windows.Slack's complaint echoes aspects of that earlier Microsoft case by claiming the company bundles its Teams product to its Office suite."Microsoft is reverting to past behavior," Slack's General Counsel David Schellhase said in a statement in the press release announcing the complaint. "They created a weak, copycat product and tied it to their dominant Office product, force installing it and blocking its removal, a carbon copy of their illegal behavior during the 'browser wars.' Slack is asking the European Commission to take swift action to ensure Microsoft cannot continue to illegally leverage its power from one market to another by bundling or tying products."Prince said that Microsoft's recent finger-pointing at other tech companies has deflected attention from its own practices. Microsoft President Brad Smith said at a Politico event in June that there should be more antitrust scrutiny of app store rules. Though he didn't name names, Smith criticized practices by rivals Apple and Google. Recently, Smith reportedly raised his concerns with Apple to the House Antitrust Subcommittee, according to Bloomberg and The Information."Of course they're saying things like that, they mounted since the 90s a decades-long attempt to kind of burnish their image and portray themselves as kind of paragons of healthy competition while behaving very very differently," Prince said on the call.Slack's move to file its complaint in the E.U. is telling. Though both companies are based in the U.S., Slack is undoubtedly aware of the E.U.'s recent history of aggressive antitrust enforcement under Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager. Vestager has brought record fines against Google and has announced or is reported to be investigating several other major U.S. tech companies including Amazon, Apple and Facebook. Spotify used a similar strategy in March of 2019 when it filed an antitrust complaint against Apple in the E.U.On the press call, Schellhase said Slack's decision to file its complaint with the European Commission was made "very deliberately.""The European Commission has been very forward-thinking and very vocal about anticompetition law and their desire to create a level playing field for all competitors for the benefit of customers, obviously," he said. "They've signaled also a desire to resolve things very quickly. They've signaled that they're going to be creative about remedies."Schellhase said Slack has asked for remedies including separating Teams from the Office suite and give the product a visible price.Still, the complaint is likely to raise questions among U.S. antitrust authorities, whose investigations of the tech industry have been among the most closely watched. Schellhase said that while Slack has yet to take similar actions in the U.S.,  executives are talking to "relevant authorities" and "we're keeping all of our options open."Microsoft hasn't completely escaped scrutiny by U.S. officials, though it has certainly seen less attention than many of its peers. The Federal Trade Commission's Office of Policy Planning included Microsoft in its review of past acquisitions in the tech industry, a project that is not part of its enforcement arm but could dig up potential enforcement issues.-CNBC's Steven Kopack and Steve Kovach contributed to this report.WATCH: How US antitrust law works, and what it means for Big TechVIDEO11:4011:40The evolution of US antitrust lawPolitics

2020/08/27, In this articleWMT9984.T-JPGOOGLByteDance Ltd.'s TikTok website is displayed on a smartphone in an arranged photograph.Andrew Harrer | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesWalmart and Microsoft might seem like an unlikely partnership to acquire TikTok's U.S. assets, but until very recently the retailer had other plans.Before teaming up with Microsoft in recent days, Walmart was part of a consortium put together by SoftBank Chief Operating Officer Marcelo Claure, which also included Google parent company Alphabet, according to people familiar with the matter. SoftBank's Claure felt Walmart's all-American image and Google's cloud computing infrastructure backbone could be a way in for the Japanese technology company, which has specialized in buying young, high-flying technology companies in recent years, including Uber and WeWork, said the people, who asked not to be named because the discussions were private. The deal structure would have had Walmart as the lead buyer, with SoftBank and Alphabet acquiring minority stakes. One or two other minority holders held talks to join the consortium, two of the people said.Walmart wanted to be the exclusive e-commerce and payments provider for TikTok and have access to user data to enhance those capabilities, one of the people said. But the people said the U.S. government wanted the lead buyer of TikTok to be a technology company because that would better fit with its national-security rationale for forcing Chinese owner ByteDance to divest TikTok's U.S. operations.Walmart confirmed its partnership with Microsoft Thursday, releasing a statement stating its interest in TikTok's e-commerce and advertising capabilities."We believe a potential relationship with TikTok US in partnership with Microsoft could add this key functionality and provide Walmart with an important way for us to reach and serve omnichannel customers as well as grow our third-party marketplace and advertising businesses," it said. "We are confident that a Walmart and Microsoft partnership would meet both the expectations of US TikTok users while satisfying the concerns of US government regulators."Alphabet, which also owns YouTube and could face significant antitrust opposition if it acquired TikTok's U.S. assets, was primarily interested in TikTok as a new cloud computing customer, and felt it was not in a position to lead the deal, the people said. That caused the consortium to fall apart last week and led Walmart, which had become increasingly convinced that TikTok fits into its strategy, to partner with Microsoft on a bid instead.Microsoft had little need for SoftBank as a partner, with a market capitalization of more than $1.7 trillion. Walmart's red-state appeal and wide user base made sense as a partner both politically and financially, one of the people said. TikTok hasn't decided between the Microsoft-Walmart bid and a rival offer from Oracle, according to people familiar with the matter. A deal, which is set to value TikTok's U.S. operations in the $20 billion to $30 billion range, could be completed in the next 48 hours, according to people familiar with the matter.TikTok, SoftBank and Alphabet declined to comment on the deal talks. WATCH: Why Walmart got into the TikTok bidding war.VIDEO4:3204:32Why Walmart got into the TikTok bidding warPower Lunch

2020/08/03, In this articleMSFTVIDEO5:2605:26'I'm not crazy about it'—Cramer on his concerns about Microsoft's talks with TikTokSquawk on the StreetMicrosoft on Sunday confirmed that it has held talks with Chinese technology company ByteDance to acquire its trendy social app TikTok in the U.S. Microsoft said in a statement that it will keep working with the U.S. government on a deal and that it intends to conclude talks by September 15.If it were to complete the deal, Microsoft could simultaneously resolve a recent controversy in Washington and gain power in consumer technology. The statement comes two days after media outlets including CNBC reported that Microsoft was interested in acquiring the app, which is owned by Chinese company ByteDance. Soon after the reports emerged, President Trump said that he opposed the idea of Microsoft buying TikTok and that he would move to ban the app in the U.S.The two companies have looked at Microsoft buying TikTok in the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand, and Microsoft might offer other American investors to get involved in the acquisition, Microsoft said, adding that its CEO, Satya Nadella, has spoken with Trump. The company did not disclose deal terms."This new structure would build on the experience TikTok users currently love, while adding world-class security, privacy, and digital safety protections," Microsoft said. "The operating model for the service would be built to ensure transparency to users as well as appropriate security oversight by governments in these countries."VIDEO3:4403:44Here's how China is reacting to the controversy surrounding TikTok in the USSquawk BoxTrump agreed to give ByteDance 45 days to cut a deal with Microsoft over TikTok, Reuters reported on Sunday, citing unnamed sources. Microsoft said it would make sure that data on TikTok users in the U.S. would be located in the country and that data stored elsewhere would be deleted after it has been moved. A TikTok spokesperson told CNBC on Sunday that data on TikTok users in the U.S. is stored in the U.S.Acquiring part of TikTok could complicate Microsoft's relationship with social media company Facebook, which views ByteDance as a competitor. Microsoft invested $240 million in Facebook in 2007, and since then the two companies have worked together on various initiatives. In June, when Microsoft announced that it would close its Mixer video game streaming service, it encouraged users to switch to Facebook's competing product.Facebook said earlier this year that it would shut down an app called Lasso that bore a resemblance to TikTok in the sense that both let users record short videos and accompany them with songs.VIDEO3:4403:44Ben Boxer: How I started a successful YouTube channel reviewing technologyInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.ByteDance introduced TikTok outside mainland China in 2017, following the launch of a similar app called Douyin. Months later ByteDance acquired Musical.ly, a separate social-media app that had gained traction with teens, paying a reported $800 million. Facebook had attempted to buy Musical.ly in 2016, BuzzFeed News reported. CNBC reported in October that TikTok had moved into Silicon Valley office space that was once used by Facebook-owned WhatsApp and had started hiring Facebook employees. Facebook declined to comment. Earlier on Sunday U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Fox News that TikTok and another popular Chinese app, Tencent's WeChat, are "feeding data directly to the Chinese Communist Party." And on Wednesday U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. was reviewing TikTok. CNBC reported earlier that CFIUS had reached out to ByteDance because of concerns that the company's Musical.ly acquisition posed a national security risk.WATCH: Treasury Sec. Mnuchin says TikTok is under review by the federal governmentVIDEO1:3301:33Treasury Sec. Mnuchin says TikTok is under review by the federal governmentSquawk on the Street

2020/12/16, Dado Ruvic | Reuters(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls Wednesday on Wall Street:Goldman Sachs upgraded Exxon to buy from neutralGoldman Sachs said in its upgrade of the oil and gas company that the stock was cheap and had an improved free cash flow."We upgrade Exxon from Neutral to Buy given potential for capital cost reductions, Guyana and Chemicals upside, improved free cash ﬂow versus history, underweight positioning and our constructive view on crude."Read more about this call here.Stifel upgraded Chipotle to buy from holdStifel said in its upgrade of the stock that Chipotle offers some of the most compelling growth prospects in the industry."Chipotle has demonstrated impressive resilience during the pandemic, and we believe the brand should benefit in 2021 from increased consumer mobility and several sales-building initiatives. In addition, we believe Chipotle offers some of the most compelling unit growth prospects within the restaurant industry."Jefferies downgraded Moderna to hold from buyJefferies downgraded the biotech company mainly on valuation and elevated expectations."Platform playing out consistent w/ our prior Buy thesis - lowering rating to Hold on significant stock run and elevated expectations. Our bullish thesis and initiation earlier this year was based on the power of mRNA and our view that its COVID-19 vaccine mRNA-1273 would successfully work and de-risk the platform and pipeline. Indeed, this has been playing out nicely and even quicker than the bulls could have hoped for."Morgan Stanley named Comcast a top pickMorgan Stanley named the cable and media company as a top pick and said it had some of the fastest growth in the industry."We see 20%+ upside to CMCSA, and our $62 price target implies the shares trade at ~16x P/E at YE21, in a market that today trades at over 20x. We expect buybacks to resume in '22. Comcast should see the fastest EBITDA growth in the industry over the next several years, building off of 2020's depressed results at NBCU and Sky."JPMorgan upgraded Twitter to overweight from neutralJPMorgan said Twitter would be a big beneficiary of the rebound in advertising and called the stock a top pick in 2021."We are bullish on online advertising in 2021 and expect industry growth to reaccelerate. We believe TWTR will show the biggest rebound given its sharper pandemic-driven ad decline, along with revenue prioritization throughout the company, early benefits from re-built ad tech through the new Ad Server and rollout of Map 2.0, and increases in both advertiser count and ad load."Read more about this call here.Morgan Stanley upgraded HP to overweight from equal weightMorgan Stanley said in its upgrade of the stock that the company is a beneficiary of the economy reopening."HPQ stands to benefit in pandemic scenarios with diverse exposure to both consumer markets that benefit from social distancing and commercial markets that benefit as economies re-open."JPMorgan upgraded Zynga to overweight from neutralJPMorgan upgraded Zynga mainly on valuation and said it saw an "attractive entry point" for the social game developer."In our view, the valuation provides an attractive entry point for a strong executor and platform in the growing mobile games space and ahead of what we see as a solid pipeline and widening opportunity set resulting from the company's greater scale."RBC downgraded Pfizer to sector perform from outperformRBC said in its downgrade of the stock that the vaccine "opportunity" is already priced in."What PFE has accomplished in getting a vaccine to market in record time, without taking government money, is nothing short of remarkable. But we believe the 'stock' reflects the vaccine discounted cash flow opportunity, making it harder for us to argue for more meaningful upside to our price target."Evercore ISI initiated Nikola as in lineEvercore ISI initiated Nikola and said it sees several overhangs for the electric hybrid truck company including execution, among other things."While there exists a WIDE range of outcomes ($3 to $47 Sum-of the- Parts), we see near-term overhangs of: 1) $1Bn+ '21 cap raise; 2) execution & 3) station partner questions, persisting through early '21. In medium-term, we see upside from significant barriers to entry once a completed core Hydrogen Trucking model is operational '23."Credit Suisse downgraded Spotify to neutral from overweightCredit Suisse downgraded the audio streaming and media company and said it now sees a more balanced risk/reward."We upgraded to Outperform in September based on our view that exclusive podcast content and market launches would drive near-term subscriber upside while gross margins would likely benefit from major label participation in marketplaces over a 3-year period. We maintain this outlook however Spotify valuation has since expanded significantly and we now see these positive factors as more priced in than not and believe the current risk/reward profile is more appropriate of a Neutral rating."Morgan Stanley downgraded Moderna to equal weight from overweightMorgan Stanley downgraded the biotech company mainly on valuation."While we expect Moderna to be a more valuable company over a multiple year period, we expect near-term valuation to be dominated by COVID-19 revenues where expectations are already high. We expect vaccines, rare diseases and oncology to be major opportunities for mRNA."Stifel downgraded Etsy to hold from buyStifel downgraded Etsy mainly on valuation."While we remain supportive of the company and its long-term growth prospects, we see a more challenging setup for 2021 in a recovery scenario given challenging comps beginning in 2Q, expectations for less robust eCommerce growth broadly, decelerating mask sales, and volume deceleration in the home category."JPMorgan downgraded JetBlue and United to underweight from overweightJPMorgan double downgraded the two airline stocks on slowing demand trends."What began as a simple housekeeping response to disappointing but unsurprising 4Q demand trends has, instead, become a recommendation for selective profit-taking. Our earlier Overweight ratings for JBLU, SAVE & UAL are now reduced to Underweight, joining AAL & LUV, as estimated fair value for all four rests slightly below current share prices."JPMorgan downgraded Tyson Foods to neutral from overweightJPMorgan said in its downgrade of the stock that it sees a more balanced risk/reward."Although we continue to believe that TSN will benefit from improved away-from-home eating trends in CY21, we now view the risk/reward in the shares as balanced. Chicken and Prepared Foods fundamentals are likely to recover a bit this fiscal year, but these improvements could be offset but the lapping of tough comps in Beef and Pork."Bank of America reinstated Salesforce as buy and named it a top pickBank of America reinstated coverage of the stock and said it believes a "long runway" still exists for the company to grow."We are reinstating coverage on Salesforce.com with a Buy rating and $275 PO, and view it as a top pick. Salesforce screens well in our 4M's framework for software investing - Market, competitive Moat, Management strength and Margin potential."RBC upgraded Palo Alto Networks to outperform from sector performRBC upgraded the multinational cyber security company and said it had the "broadest portfolio of solutions to enable security transformation.""We are upgrading PANW to OP and increasing our target to $380 (from $292) for the following reasons: 1) COVID changes everything and positions Palo Alto with the broadest portfolio of solutions to enable security transformations, 2) much of the heavy lifting operational changes of the past +2 years is behind them."JPMorgan named Coca-Cola and Constellation Brands as top picksJPMorgan named the beverage companies as top picks and said both should benefit from an economic reopening and recovery."The reopening calls are Coca-Cola and Constellation Brands, as both should benefit from the on-premise global recovery. As roughly half of KO's global volumes are derived from the away-from-home channel, we believe KO will be an outsized beneficiary to the broader reopening trend. While STZ's exposure to on-premise distribution is smaller we still believe STZ should benefit from the reopening given the significant momentum behind the company's beer portfolio."Bank of America reinstated Microsoft as buyBank of America reinstated coverage of Microsoft and said it sees margin expansion and double-digit revenue growth over the next few years."We believe that the company can sustain low double digit growth in the coming 3-5 years, led by continued adoption of Azure cloud infrastructure platform, cloud based Office 365 productivity suite and more profitable Games and Game Pass revenue in the Xbox franchise."Disclosure: Comcast is the owner of NBCUniversal, parent company of CNBC.

2020/06/29, Microsoft's CEO Satya Nadella speaks to participants during the Viva Technologie show at Parc des Expositions Porte de Versailles on May 24, 2018 in Paris, France. Viva Technology, the new international event brings together 5,000 startups with top investors, companies to grow businesses and all players in the digital transformation who shape the future of the internet.Chesnot | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is going head-to-head with Amazon in cloud computing and in recruiting top tech talent in the Seattle area. But when it comes to livestreaming video games, Microsoft is bowing out of a market where Amazon is surging. Four years after buying game streaming start-up Beam and later rebranding it as Mixer, Microsoft said last week that it will stop operating the service in July, and encouraged users to adopt a similar service from Facebook. Many of the users went to Twitch, the competitor that Amazon bought for almost $1 billion in 2014 and, by one analyst's recent estimate, is now worth about $15 billion. The outcome represents a stumble for Satya Nadella's Microsoft, whose stock has multiplied fivefold since Nadella succeeded Steve Ballmer at the helm in 2014. Microsoft is giving up on a growing market at a time when it's promoting other gaming products like Xbox consoles and popular online game Minecraft. Even the co-founder of Beam said Nadella was making the right call when considering Microsoft's bottom line."Live video makes no sense from a unit economics standpoint," said Matt Salsamendi, who helped start Beam in 2014 and left Microsoft last year, in an interview.Mixer is a costly operation. It delivers video streams using a protocol called faster than light, or FTL, which promises speed so rapid that streamers can instantly respond to what audience members are telling them in chat messages.Microsoft tried various tactics to help Mixer grow. It wove Mixer into the Game Bar on Windows 10 and delivered a Mixer app for Microsoft's Xbox One console, making it easy for gamers to broadcast their play sessions. It added support for many languages and developed a way for people to buy games that they were watching streamers play.Last year, Microsoft went further, adding a virtual currency called Embers that audience members could buy to display stickers in chat messages. It also paid prominent streamers to join Mixer and ditch Twitch.After the coronavirus struck earlier this year, Mixer's deficit in the market became too much to overcome. In April, with offices and schools closed across the U.S. and much of the world, consumers spent 1.5 billion hours watching Twitch, twice the amount of time from the same period in 2019, according to a report from live-streaming software company StreamElements and Lightstream. Mixer use, meanwhile, was flat at 37 million hours. VIDEO5:3805:38Twitch COO Sara Clemens: We're seeing record levels of engagementSquawk Alley"It became clear that the time to grow our own livestreaming community to scale was out of measure with the vision and experiences we want to deliver to gamers now," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in a statement. "So we're shifting our focus to deliver upon that vision."Microsoft plans to promote the Xbox Series X console and the xCloud streaming service, expected later this year, and it's still building up the all-you-can-eat Xbox Game Pass business, which recently passed 10 million subscribers.Microsoft has, in the past, operated unprofitable businesses viewed as important to the overall company. For years, Microsoft's Bing search engine lost money, but in 2015 it became profitable. LinkedIn, which Microsoft acquired for $27 billion in 2016, lost money through 2018. As the company's largest acquisition ever, it represents a longer-term bet. The Beam acquisition was so small that its performance won't do much, if anything, to overall earnings. That makes it much more palatable to investors than the 2007 acquisition of aQuantive and the 2013 purchase of Nokia's devices and services business, which cost $6.3 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively. Both of those deals led to substantial writedowns.In this case, analysts say, Microsoft is making a prudent financial call. Days after announcing the shuttering of Mixer, Microsoft said it would close its physical stores around the world. In a note to clients on Friday, Brad Reback and Adam Borg of Stifel said both make sense."Net/net, we believe this move, coupled with Microsoft's decision to abandon Mixer (e-gaming live-streaming platform) earlier this week, continues to demonstrate the company's commitment towards not chasing good money after bad," wrote the analysts, who have a buy rating on the stock. They added that Microsoft can instead focus "investments towards higher growth opportunities."WATCH: Sony and Microsoft are waiting to see who blinks first on console pricing: AnalystVIDEO6:0806:08Sony and Microsoft waiting to see who blinks first on console pricing: AnalystSquawk Box Asia

2020/09/10, In this articleMSFTSupporters of President Donald Trump scream and cheer without protective masks as the president enters his first re-election campaign rally in several months in the midst of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, at the BOK Center in Tulsa, Oklahoma, June 20, 2020.Leah Millis | ReutersHackers working for Russia, China and Iran have recently escalated their attacks around the U.S. presidential race as Election Day looms, Microsoft says.Microsoft's vice president of customer security and trust, Tom Burt, wrote in a blog post published Thursday that the company's cybersecurity experts had recently seen an uptick in hackers targeting campaigns."In recent weeks, Microsoft has detected cyberattacks targeting people and organizations involved in the upcoming Presidential election," Burt wrote.As the company behind the Windows operating system and Office program suite, Microsoft has broad insight into the infrastructure that hackers use to launch attacks.More from NBC NewsWhistleblower says top DHS officials distorted intel to match Trump statements, lied to CongressSee before and after photos of San Francisco Bay Area shrouded in smokeThe NFL will look very different when the Chiefs and Texans kick off in Kansas CityThe announcement comes as the presidential campaigns are now pushing into the final two months of the race — one that has national security officials as well as private companies on edge after Russia's election manipulation efforts of 2016.While hackers from all three countries have been spotted targeting people tied to Biden and Trump's campaigns, Russia's GRU, its military intelligence agency, remains the biggest threat, said John Hultquist, the director of intelligence analysis at Mandiant."We remain most concerned by Russian military intelligence, who we believe poses the greatest threat to the democratic process," Hultquist said in a text message."The GRU has carried out many of the most brash and aggressive cyberoperations to ever come to light," Hultquist said, like the hack-and-leak operations of Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign and French President Emmanual Macron's 2017 campaign.Russia had targeted over 200 organizations, many of which were in some way affiliated with the U.S. election or European policy, including consultants to both major U.S. parties and think tanks, Burt said.One recent target was SKDKnickerbocker, a Washington law consulting firm working with the Biden campaign. Reuters reported Thursday that Microsoft recently warned the firm that Russian intelligence has been sending phishing emails to the firm, which often seek to steal login information that can provide access to private documents or systems. Microsoft declined to comment on that issue, and SKDKnickerbocker didn't respond to request for comment.While Microsoft found no direct indication that Chinese hackers are seeking more than information on the campaigns, it has "indirectly and unsuccessfully targeted the Joe Biden for President campaign through non-campaign email accounts belonging to people affiliated with the campaign," Burt wrote.Jamal Brown, Biden's press secretary, noted in an email that Microsoft said the attempts were unsuccessful."We have known from the beginning of our campaign that we would be subject to such attacks and we are prepared for them," he said.Separately, Burt wrote that Iran had "unsuccessfully attempted to log into the accounts of Administration officials and Donald J. Trump for President campaign staff" in May and June.Thea McDonald, deputy national press secretary for the Trump campaign, said in an email that it was "not surprising to see malicious activity directed at the campaign.""We work closely with our partners, Microsoft and others, to mitigate these threats. We take cybersecurity very seriously and do not publicly comment on our efforts," she said.As only Russia has routinely hacked campaigns to leak material, rather than simply gathering intelligence, Iran targeting Trump and China targeting Biden doesn't necessarily indicate a desire to see those candidates lose.In a public statement in August, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence announced that those countries' influence operations did each indicate a preference: China and Iran primarily denigrated Trump, and Russia sought to hurt Biden.Christopher Krebs, the director of the U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, said that Burt's announcement was a reminder for the U.S. to stay vigilant."The announcement is consistent with earlier statements by the Intelligence Community on a range of malicious cyber activities targeting the 2020 campaign and reinforces that this is an all-of-nation effort to defend democracy," Krebs said in a statement. "Everyone involved in the political process should stay alert against these sorts of attacks."

2020/08/04, A customer plays on an Xbox xCloud device at the Microsoft store opening on July 11, 2019 in London, England.Peter Summers | Getty ImagesMicrosoft announced Tuesday it will be launching its Netflix-style cloud gaming service on Sept. 15 as part of a $15-per-month subscription bundle.The company initially revealed it would make its xCloud streaming platform a free add-on to its Xbox Game Pass Ultimate service last month. Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, which costs $15 a month, is the firm's top subscription product and gives gamers access to a catalog of games on its Xbox One console and Windows 10 PCs.A beta version of Microsoft's cloud gaming software will be included with the Xbox Game Pass app on Sept. 15, allowing users to jump into a game from their smartphone or tablet. The app will only be available on Android devices and in 22 countries including the U.S., Canada, Britain and South Korea. Microsoft said it'll be coming to PC too, but there's no release date for that yet.Players will be able to choose from a selection of over 100 games at launch. Microsoft didn't reveal all the titles that will be available, but shared an initial list of games including "Destiny 2," "Gears of War 5," "Grounded," "Halo 5," "Minecraft Dungeons" and upcoming title "Tell Me Why."What is cloud gaming?The ability to play games from the cloud is a concept that's gathered increasing momentum in the $150 billion video game industry.The technology is often thought of as a kind of "Netflix for games," as it lets people stream games over the internet on their phone, tablet or PC while the games themselves are run on remote servers. The appeal of this model is that gamers wouldn't have to buy a console or an expensive gaming computer to play.VIDEO3:4503:45Netflix's user base has 'significant overlaps' with gamers: ExpertStreet Signs EuropeCompetition in the cloud gaming space has heated up of late, with Google launching its own streaming platform called Stadia last year. Google's service was met with mixed reception due to a limited library of games and the fact that many of those titles had to be purchased individually.Nvidia has also released its own platform called GeForce Now, however that ran into trouble with developers earlier this year, and Activision Blizzard pulled all its games from the service. Meanwhile, Sony has long offered a cloud gaming subscription service called PlayStation Now, but that's only available on the PlayStation 4 and PC.In Microsoft's case, the company will roll out cloud gaming on Android phones and tablets but not PC or Apple devices to begin with. George Jijiashvili, senior analyst at Omdia, said that while Microsoft was a "force to be reckoned with" in the game streaming market thanks to its Azure cloud technology and Xbox gaming brand, the lack of iPhone support was "a massive elephant in the room."Dedicated hardwareMicrosoft also unveiled a range of dedicated controllers and accessories that will work with cloud gaming, thanks to partnerships with various gaming hardware manufacturers.One controller from Razer attaches to a user's smartphone, with analog sticks and buttons either side in similar fashion to Nintendo's hybrid Switch console. Other devices that will be compatible with Microsoft's cloud gaming service include two controllers from PowerA — one with a phone mount on top and another that attaches on either side of a phone — a retro-themed controller from 8BitDo and a wireless gaming headset from SteelSeries.Gaming hardware maker Razer's Kishi controller for smartphones will work with Microsoft's cloud gaming service.MicrosoftMicrosoft is currently gearing up for the launch of its upcoming Xbox Series X console, which will compete directly with Sony's own next-gen machine, the PlayStation 5, in the fall. But Microsoft has placed an increasing focus on cloud gaming and subscriptions, with all its upcoming next-gen games including "Halo Infinite" and "Fable" set to come to Xbox Game Pass.The video game sector has thrived during the coronavirus pandemic due to government-enforced lockdowns around the world. In its fourth-quarter earnings report, Microsoft said its Xbox content and services revenue rose 65% with record engagement as people stayed home and played games.

2020/09/09, Microsoft's next-generation Xbox Series X console.MicrosoftMicrosoft on Wednesday announced that its new Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S gaming consoles will be available on Nov. 10. Preorders start on Sept. 22.The high-end Xbox Series X will cost $499 while the entry-level Xbox Series S will cost $299. Microsoft will also offer a financing plan that allows customers to pay for either console over 24 months.The Xbox Series S costs $24.99 per month on that plan while the Xbox Series X will cost $34.99 per month.Microsoft said the financing plans also include access to Xbox Game Pass Ultimate and EA Play, which allows you to download or stream more than 100 games to Xbox or PC. It will also include Microsoft's new mobile streaming services that let you stream from the cloud to an Android phone. You'll have to buy a Game Pass subscription plan separately, which starts at $9.99 per month, if you don't finance.Microsoft teased a smaller, cheaper version of its next-gen Xbox Series X console Tuesday. The new device, called the Xbox Series S, will be Microsoft's "smallest Xbox ever," the company said.MicrosoftThe Microsoft Series X is four times more powerful than the current Xbox One X and includes an 8-core AMD Zen 2 processor, the same that will power the Sony PS5, although the Xbox has a better graphics card. The Xbox Series S is 60% smaller than the Series X and doesn't have a disc drive, so you'll need to download or stream all of your games.VIDEO1:1801:18Microsoft is launching its "smallest Xbox ever"—Here are the detailsNews Videos-- CNBC's Ryan Browne contributed to this report.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/08/03, In this articleMSFTPresident Donald J. Trump stops to talk to reporters as he walks to board Marine One and depart from the South Lawn at the White House in Washington on July 31, 2020.Jabin Botsford | The Washington Post | Getty Images)President Donald Trump said Monday that it could be easier if Microsoft were to buy Chinese-owned TikTok in its entirety, rather than a small part of the social video app, because the name would be split across two companies, and suggested the company should pay the U.S. Treasury as part of the deal."I think buying 30% is complicated, and I suggested that he can go ahead, he can try," Trump told reporters in the Cabinet Room at the White House on Monday. He was referring to his conversation over the weekend with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella. The comments come a day after Microsoft confirmed in a statement that it has looked at buying TikTok in the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand.A larger deal could go beyond resolving the U.S. government's concern over Chinese control of the app, where hundreds of millions of people share short videos that often feature music.A transaction of the type the president envisions could also prove more expensive than the one Microsoft described on Sunday. Trump said Monday that part of the amount paid to buy TikTok would have to come to the U.S. Treasury Department because it would be making the deal possible."It's a little bit like the landlord/tenant; without a lease the tenant has nothing, so they pay what's called 'key money,' or they pay something," Trump said. "But the United States should be reimbursed or should be paid a substantial amount of money, because without the United States they don't have anything, at least having to do with the 30%."Microsoft's largest acquisition to date is the 2016 acquisition of business social network LinkedIn, at $27 billion. Investors of the privately owned ByteDance, the Chinese company that owns TikTok, valued TikTok at $50 billion, Reuters reported last week.VIDEO3:4403:44Ben Boxer: How I started a successful YouTube channel reviewing technologyInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.The app will be banned in the U.S. if it's not sold by Sept. 15, Trump said on Monday. On Sunday, Microsoft said that it wants to conclude talks with ByteDance by that date."We believe from a management and board perspective this is a unique deal of a decade opportunity with a price tag that could easily be consummated," Wedbush analysts led by Dan Ives, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on Microsoft stock, wrote in a note distributed to clients on Monday. Microsoft had $136.53 billion cash, equivalents and short-term investments as of June 30, according to the company's most recent quarterly earnings report.Microsoft shares rose 5.6% during Monday's trading session, which was mostly positive for tech stocks overall.The rise of TikTok has been part of ongoing U.S. government concerns about China that prompted a trade war. Trump administration officials have argued that TikTok delivers user information to the Chinese Communist Party. TikTok has said "TikTok U.S. user data is stored in the U.S."— CNBC's Steve Kopack contributed to this report.WATCH: How Microsoft could benefit from buying TikTokVIDEO1:5201:52How Microsoft could benefit from buying TikTokSquawk Alley

2020/07/22, In this articleMSFTMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks at a fireside chat with the CEO of German carmaker Volkswagen (unseen) where they unveiled their cooperation for the Volkswagen Automotive Cloud in Berlin on February 27, 2019.Tobias Schwarz | AFP | Getty ImagesMicrosoft shares fell as much as 3% in extended trading Wednesday after the company reported better-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts' expectations, although quarterly revenue guidance was lighter than expected. Here's how the company did: Earnings: $1.46 per share, adjusted, vs. $1.34 per share as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.Revenue: $38.03 billion, vs. $36.50 billion as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.Microsoft's overall revenue grew 13% on an annualized basis in the quarter, which ended June 30, according to a statement. Revenue went up 15% in the prior quarter, which saw less impact from the coronavirus pandemic.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsMicrosoft's Intelligent Cloud business segment, which includes the Azure public cloud, Windows Server, SQL Server, GitHub and enterprise services, posted $13.37 billion in revenue, up 17% year over year and above the $13.11 billion consensus among analysts polled by FactSet. Azure revenue growth slowed to 47% from 59% in the previous quarter. Microsoft does not disclose Azure revenue in dollars, but did say its commercial cloud business surpassed $50 billion in revenue for the fiscal year.Capital expenditures came to $5.8 billion, almost double what they were three years ago as the company looks to expand the infrastructure to deliver Azure and its own online services.The Productivity and Business Processes unit, which contains Office, Dynamics and LinkedIn, contributed $11.75 billion in revenue. That's up 6% and less than the FactSet consensus of $11.91 billion. LinkedIn's revenue grew 10%, the slowest growth since 2016 as Microsoft closed the $27 billion acquisition, given the weaker job market and less spending on advertising. The operating margin for that part of the company, at 33.8%, was the lowest since 2017. Marketing of the Teams communications app that competes with Slack partly caused an increase in the unit's operating expenses.The company's More Personal Computing unit, including Windows, search, Surface and Xbox, had $12.91 billion in quarterly revenue, which is 14% up and higher than the $11.48 billion FactSet consensus. Xbox content and services revenue was up 65% with record engagement as people stayed home and played games. The performance, which included benefit from the company's Minecraft video game, was better than the company had expected, Amy Hood, Microsoft's chief financial officer, said on a conference call with analysts Wednesday. Sales of licenses for commercial Windows devices shrank 4%, the slowest growth since 2016, while licenses for consumer devices accelerated to 34% after falling 10% one quarter earlier. Search ad revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, declined 18%, with customers reducing how much they spend.The company's earnings were pulled down slightly by a shift in Microsoft's retail strategy. On June 26 Microsoft said it would close its physical stores, resulting in a one-time charge of $450 million, or 5 cents per share, before taxes.Also in the quarter Microsoft disclosed a plan to shut down its Mixer video game streaming service, and announced the acquisitions of CyberX, Metaswitch and Softomotive. Industry research group Gartner estimated that PC shipments, a factor in Microsoft's Windows sales, returned to year-over-year growth in the quarter, following a decline in the first quarter in connection with the pandemic.Microsoft called for $35.61 billion in revenue for the fiscal first quarter, implying 8% revenue growth. The forecast was lower than the $35.91 billion that analysts polled by Refinitiv had been looking for. The company is changing its accounting to better reflect the useful life of server equipment, raising it to four years, and that adjustment will benefit operating income for the full 2021 fiscal year by $2.7 billion, Hood said. Amazon, the leader in the public cloud market, announced a similar shift in January.Excluding the after-hours move, Microsoft shares are up about 34% since the beginning of the year.WATCH: It's hard not to own Apple and Microsoft in this market, Granite's Tim Lesko saysVIDEO4:0104:01It's hard not to own Apple and Microsoft in this market, Granite's Tim Lesko saysSquawk Box

2020/11/06, In this articleAMZN9988-HKMSFTThe Alibaba Group Holdings Ltd. headquarters stand illuminated at night ahead of the annual November 11 Singles' Day online shopping event in Hangzhou, China, on Sunday, Nov. 10, 2019.Qilai Shen | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesGUANGZHOU, China — The growth of Alibaba's cloud business outpaced Amazon and Microsoft in the quarter ending in September, and the Chinese tech giant reiterated its commitment to making the unit profitable by next March.Alibaba reported cloud computing brought in revenue of 14.89 billion yuan ($2.24 billion) in the three months ending Sept. 30. That's a 60% year-on-year rise and its fastest rate of growth since the December quarter of 2019.That was faster than Amazon Web Service's 29% year-on-year revenue rise and Microsoft Azure's 48% growth in the September quarter.It's important to note that Alibaba's cloud computing business is significantly smaller than these two market leaders.We believe cloud computing is fundamental infrastructure for the digital era, but it is still in the early stage of growth.Daniel ZhangAlibaba CEOFor comparison, Amazon Web Services brought in revenue of $11.6 billion while Microsoft's intelligent cloud revenue, which includes other products as well as Azure, totaled $13 billion in the September quarter.Alibaba is the fourth largest public cloud computing provider globally, according to Synergy Research Group.Alibaba CEO Daniel Zhang said that public sectors and financial services contributed the highest growth to the company's cloud division."We believe cloud computing is fundamental infrastructure for the digital era, but it is still in the early stage of growth. We are committed to further increasing our investments in cloud computing," Zhang said on the earnings call.In September, Alibaba chief financial officer Maggie Wu said the company's cloud computing business is likely to become profitable for the first time in the current fiscal year. Alibaba's fiscal year began in April 2020 and ends on March 31, 2021. Alibaba's loss from the cloud computing business was 3.79 billion yuan in the September quarter, much wider than the 1.92 billion yuan loss reported in the same period last year. However, Wu pointed to the earnings before interest, taxes, and amortization (EBITA), another measure of profitability.EBITA loss narrowed to 156 million yuan from 521 million yuan in the same period last year. The EBITA margin was negative 1%.On this basis, Wu said on the earnings call that Alibaba management "definitely expect to see profitability in the following two quarters.""As I talked about during the Investor Day, we do not see any reason that for the long‑term, Alibaba cloud computing cannot reach to the margin level that we see in other peer companies. Before that, we are going to continue to focus expanding our cloud computing market leadership and also grow our profits," she said.

2020/07/13, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., gestures as he speaks during a Bloomberg event on the opening day of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, on Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft will no longer be the parent of a friendly virtual chatbot for Chinese users. The company is spinning off the technology, known as Xiaoice or Xiaobing, into a new standalone company. The move further hones Microsoft's focus on commercial business rather than consumers. In recent years Microsoft has left several markets aimed at consumers, including e-books, music streaming, fitness wearables and smartphones. Xiaoice became available in 2014, not long after Satya Nadella replaced Steve Ballmer as Microsoft's CEO. The technology uses artificial intelligence to hold up its end of a virtual chat conversation, and generally takes on the persona of a teenager.  "Sometimes sweet, sometimes sassy and always streetwise, this virtual teenager has her own opinions and steadfastly acts like no other bot," Microsoft explained in a 2018 blog post. "She doesn't try to answer every question posed by a user. And, she's loath to follow their commands. Instead, her conversations with her often adoring users are peppered with wry remarks, jokes, empathic advice on life and love, and a few simple words of encouragement."Xiaoice was trained on data that Microsoft picked up from internet users through the Bing search engine, and works with multiple other chat services, including Weibo. But the Chinese authorities haven't always looked at it kindly. The service had been reportedly banned three times from Tencent's WeChat for unspecified reasons related to privacy concerns and political content. The new entity will keep serving existing users while also seeking to bring the technology to other companies in China, Japan and Indonesia, according to a Chinese-language announcement posted on QQ on Sunday. Microsoft will hold an investment interest in the new company, according to the announcement. The general manager of Xiaoice at Microsoft, Di Li, will be CEO of the new company.The chatbot had 660 million users, according to Sunday's announcement. People who used it told Microsoft that they felt more positive and supported emotionally, according to a 2018 academic paper.Xiaoice won a warmer reception than Tay, an English-language chatbot that Microsoft launched on Twitter in 2016. Malicious users quickly realized they could tailor how they interacted with Tay to manipulate it into delivering offenseive responses. Microsoft continues to operate the Cortana virtual assistant, which is available on mobile devices and in Windows 10.WATCH: Options traders see upside potential in MicrosoftVIDEO1:3901:39Options traders see upside potential in MicrosoftHalftime Report

2020/07/20, In this articleAMZNMSFTSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., attends the Viva Tech start-up and technology gathering at Parc des Expositions Porte de Versailles on May 24, 2018 in Paris, France.Christophe Morin | IP3 | Getty ImagesMicrosoft will stop relying on Amazon to help it run the popular Minecraft video game.The shift represents an obvious way for Microsoft to cut back on payments to one of its toughest competitors and promote its own product. Amazon Web Services rules the market for public cloud infrastructure for running software from afar through vast data centers, and Microsoft has been working to take share with its Azure cloud.Azure is growing faster than many other parts of Microsoft, helping it lean less on longstanding properties like Windows and Office. Moving more of its own software to Azure can help Microsoft make the case to customers that it doesn't look anywhere else for computing, storage and networking resources to deliver its online services. That's an important consideration, because Amazon can tell customers that its sprawling e-commerce business consumes resources from AWS.Most of Microsoft's consumer and commercial properties, including the Teams communication app, already draw on Azure. Last year, two and a half years after it closed the acquisition of business social network LinkedIn, Microsoft said it would migrate LinkedIn from its own dedicated data centers to Azure. The use of AWS for Minecraft for a version called Realms — virtual places for small groups to gather and play the open-world game together — dates to 2014. Months after AWS published a blog post about how Mojang, the game developer behind Minecraft, had chosen to tap AWS for Realms, Microsoft announced that it would acquire Mojang for $2.5 billion.Minecraft has since grown into the world's best-selling game, with over 200 million copies sold as of May, and 126 million people play it each month."Mojang Studios has used AWS in the past, but we've been migrating all cloud services to Azure over the last few years," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email. Amazon declined to comment.It would not have been right to make Mojang get off AWS immediately after the acquisition, Matt Booty, the head of studios at Microsoft, suggested in a recent interview."It would be easy for a large organization to come in and say: 'Hey, we're going to show you how it's done. We're going to get you off this Java code. We're going to get things moved over to C. We're going to get you off Amazon Web Services and over to Azure,'" Booty told GamesIndustry.biz. "But it's important to realize that the conditions that created Minecraft, how it came to be, are likely to be things that are difficult to recreate within a more corporate structure."Now there is an end in sight for the dependence on a rival."We'll be fully transitioned to Azure by the end of the year," the Microsoft spokesperson wrote.WATCH: How Unilever and Minecraft are putting education ahead of profitVIDEO6:5406:54How Unilever and Minecraft are putting education ahead of profitMarketing Media Money

2020/08/09, (L-R) Reed Hastings and Ted Sarandos attend the "Marseille" Netflix TV Serie World Premiere At Palais Du Pharo In Marseille, on May 4, 2016 in Marseille, France.Stephane Cardinale | Corbis | Getty ImagesBrace yourself. Here comes the fire take.Netflix should buy TikTok.OK, at least hear me out. Let's start with the caveats. Netflix has exactly zero experience doing a large acquisition. Netflix has intensely focused on produced video to build its business globally. TikTok is mostly raw user-generated video. TikTok is a totally different business from Netflix that relies on advertising, and Netflix has no experience selling ads. There are no back-end synergies. Netflix doesn't have a cloud computing arm that can safely house TikTok data. TikTok will almost certainly bring headaches about content decisions regarding misinformation and censorship that Netflix has been able to largely avoid. Microsoft is already a month or so down the road on a complicated deal to buy TikTok's U.S. operations and has the government's blessing. Netflix already borrows billions of dollars for content. Buying TikTok in cash would mean billions more in debt.Now that we've got that out of the way, let's talk about why it makes sense.TikTok has to sell, and Netflix can afford it Someone has to buy TikTok's U.S. operations from its Chinese parent company ByteDance. The Trump administration signed an executive order this week stating it will shut down the app in 45 days. It's possible ByteDance could just accept the ban and try its luck with the Biden administration, but that's a huge risk, given that Biden has also told his campaign employees to remove TikTok from their phones. In the meantime, TikTok's creators and stars would decamp and find new outlets -- possibly on Facebook's copycat product Reels, which just happened to debut this week.ByteDance has said publicly it is willing to sell TikTok's U.S. business. The deal it has started to negotiate with Microsoft includes the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand. ByteDance does not want to sell. TikTok's advertising growth potential is immense. The Wall Street Journal reported internal forecasts indicate ByteDance is projecting $1 billion this year and $6 billion next year in revenue. So, to quickly wrap up: ByteDance is being forced to sell an asset with enormous growth potential whose closest comparisons — YouTube and Instagram — are worth well over $100 billion. And TikTok arguably has a better advertising model for younger people than both companies, since it pushes brands to develop their own creative TikTok ads. Commercials feel more modern and less intrusive, so people may not skip them as often.In other words, TikTok is a jewel asset that a buyer might be able to get to a bargain price. Yes, there are some major risks that could destroy the company's value. The main risk is sorting out TikTok's intertwined relationship with ByteDance if only four countries are sold instead of the entire company. But the majority of TikTok's value is in the U.S. Almost all of TikTok's most followed creators are American. CNBC reported Microsoft could pay up to $30 billion for the American, Canadian, Australian and New Zealand businesses. As Morgan Stanley Vice Chairman Robert Kindler said, if you buy an asset on the cheap, it doesn't matter if the deal has synergies. Whoever buys TikTok could be buying a winning lottery ticket. If so, purchasing TikTok becomes a matter of risk tolerance. Microsoft, with a market valuation of $1.6 trillion, has a built in cushion. Netflix isn't quite as large. But at $221 billion, the company can afford TikTok for $30 billion while taking a chance on building Netflix and TikTok into complementary behemoths. Netflix can always invite outside investors to buy minority stakes to lower the price tag while keeping control of the company. Unlike Apple, Amazon, Google and Facebook, Netflix wasn't just called in to testify in front of a Congressional antitrust committee that grilled those companies about having too much market power. There are few realistic alternatives to Microsoft as a buyer.And hey, if you agree with Netflix perma-bear analyst Michael Pachter and think Netflix is — pun intended — a "House of Cards" built on borrowed money, what better time to use some of Wall Street's currency to make a big acquisition! Netflix's biggest competition: User generated videoNetflix co-Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings once said his company's biggest competition is sleep. But more recently, and less glibly, he's focused in on two threats: video games and self-made short-form video. Hastings even specifically called out TikTok as a new competitor in the company's latest quarterly earnings shareholder note."TikTok's growth is astounding, showing the fluidity of internet entertainment," Netflix wrote on July 16.Hastings isn't hiding his fears about what could derail Netflix. It isn't Disney+ or HBO Max or one of the new U.S.-based subscription services. It's what he calls "substitution threats.""Many people love video gaming instead of watching movies and TV shows, or they live on YouTube instead of watching movies and TV shows," Hastings said on Vox Media's Land of the Giants podcast. "Our goal is to be the best in the world at movies and series, and the danger for us is these other things become highly more relevant for people. You can think of it as 100 years ago, we might try to be the best in the opera and the novel, and then those turn into very small art forms today because television became so much more compelling. So we have to watch out for those substitution threats."Buying TikTok would hedge one of those substitution threats in a major way. Huge advertising opportunityNow, M&A experts may argue that you should never buy an asset to diversify or hedge. But TikTok is more than just a hedge for Netflix. For years, Netflix has said its subscription service will not include advertising. But the advertising industry insists the company will have to give."They're going to need growth," Tara Walpert Levy, YouTube and Google's VP of Agency and Media Solutions, said last year about Netflix. "Eventually, they're going to need more growth."TikTok could keep Netflix ad-free even if global subscriber additions begin to fall. Buying an advertising-based company with huge growth potential would give Netflix an outlet to tap in to that market without tampering with its successful subscription product. TikTok is, of course, free. Netflix is a subscription. They're complements, just as NBCUniversal has positioned its streaming service Peacock to be a free alternative to cable TV. In other words, that's not really hedging —both companies can flourish next to each other. Facebook bought Instagram and WhatsApp to stay ahead of social media trends. It worked. Facebook is a $790 billion behemoth. Netflix could use similar thinking with TikTok.Actually, there would be synergiesThere would be clear synergies by marketing and mixing talent between Netflix and TikTok. Each service would push the other. TikTok stars would have their own series on Netflix. Netflix stars would create TikTok accounts. Netflix already uses Amazon Web Services for its storage and data security. AWS could be the secure home for TikTok as well. Netflix's deal with AWS is enormous. The terms it could strike with Amazon for TikTok would almost certainly be as advantageous for Netflix as any company in the world. It may not be as clean as Microsoft, which can offer both cloud services and ownership, but it's a solution. Netflix has invested billions of dollars into content recommendation and artificial intelligence that understands viewing preferences. While TikTok's algorithm is proprietary, one could imagine there may be some interesting data synergies between the two companies to better perfect video recommendation with both companies. Great leadershipOne of the biggest concerns with Microsoft buying TikTok is its history of screwing up acquisitions, though most of those blemishes happened before CEO Satya Nadella took over. But even Microsoft's biggest deal under Nadella -- the $26 billion purchase of LinkedIn -- has been hindered by slow integration and minimal earnings gains.New Netflix co-CEO Ted Sarandos knows TikTok CEO Kevin Mayer from his previous job running Disney's streaming video operations. Netflix has a unique and intense culture. Integrating any company may present big cultural challenges. But TikTok's U.S. operations are relatively small. There are just 1,400 U.S. employees — far fewer than most legacy media companies that would move the needle for Netflix. Netflix's hands-off approach to decision-making, empowering employees to make big decisions on their own, could be an ideal set up for TikTok. Having Hastings and Sarandos as sounding boards on how to build and grow a media company would be ideal. Netflix has also said it has likely reached peak cash burn, and the company is focused on becoming consistently free cash flow positive. That would help with the long-term absorption of TikTok, even if outside investors cushioned the price tag. The biggest drawbackHere's why the deal doesn't make sense to me: TikTok wants to keep the bulk of its global business. Netflix has international aspirations. Buying an asset that only has growth potential in four countries doesn't jive with Netflix's overall mission to take over global entertainment.But a move to buy TikTok U.S. today could lead to an acquisition of the rest of the TikTok down the road. Netflix should pounce on the opportunity today and figure out the rest later. Splitting TikTok seems complicated. If Netflix gets its foot in the door, perhaps it can figure out a way to buy the rest of TikTok — specifically in India, where Netflix is banking on enormous growth after first struggling — in the months or years to come. This idea of buying the entire business has also reportedly been appealing to Microsoft. And here's the biggest plus of all: if this happens, I'll ask for a smaller finder's fee than the U.S. government. What's fair? $50 million? That sounds reasonable. Art of the Deal, baby.Disclosure: Comcast is the owner of NBCUniversal, parent company of CNBC.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: Cramer: The next stop after banning Chinese apps is banning Chinese IPOsVIDEO1:1801:18Cramer: The next stop after banning Chinese apps is banning Chinese IPOsSquawk Box

2020/07/31, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., listens during an interview on The David Rubenstein Show in New York on Sept. 27, 2017.Christopher Goodney | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is in talks to acquire TikTok's U.S. operations. Strategically, this doesn't make a lot of sense for Microsoft, which has been steadfastly focused on enterprise software under Chief Executive Officer Satya Nadella and has seen its market valuation balloon to more than $1.5 trillion because of it. But Microsoft should absolutely try to acquire the U.S. TikTok business. Any company with the means to do it should.What's being discussed between Microsoft and TikTok involves the sale of only the U.S. operations, according to people familiar with the matter. The rest of TikTok would still be owned by TikTok parent Bytedance. That'll limit the price tag --- but this will still be a big deal, if it happens. It's unclear how much TikTok's U.S. operations would cost, but Reuters reported TikTok investors value the entire business at $50 billion. Given Facebook today is worth about $725 billion, there's evidence that popular global social networks that can monetize advertising have some major growth possibilities.TikTok is supremely positioned to explode from a valuation standpoint. TikTok has 100 million U.S. users. It is just now beginning to monetize its huge audience with advertisements, and curated, targeted, clever short-form video ads are perfect for a younger audience that skips or pays to ignore traditional TV commercials. ByteDance would be selling just as TikTok is about to take off financially. Unfortunately for the Chinese-based company, U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to order ByteDance to divest the U.S. part of the business for security reasons."While we do not comment on rumors or speculation, we are confident in the long-term success of TikTok," TikTok said in a statement on Friday. "Hundreds of millions of people come to TikTok for entertainment and connection, including our community of creators and artists who are building livelihoods from the platform. We're motivated by their passion and creativity, and committed to protecting their privacy and safety as we continue working to bring joy to families and meaningful careers to those who create on our platform." Sometimes, if an asset is cheap enough, the synergies don't matter. Take CNBC's parent company, Comcast, which acquired 51% of NBCUniversal from General Electric during the 2009 financial crisis for the now-laughably low price of $13.75 billion. Two years later, Comcast bought the other 49% for $16.7 billion. Last year, NBCUniversal posted EBITDA of $8.7 billion, suggesting a pre-pandemic valuation well north of $60 billion. As Morgan Stanley Vice Chairman Robert Kindler said this week, there are no obvious synergies between TV content ad distribution. But that doesn't mean Comcast made a mistake buying NBCUniversal.The counterargument is Microsoft could screw up TikTok. It does have some history botching consumer-facing acquisitions, such as Skype and Mixer. But simply bringing in TikTok and letting it do its thing isn't overly complicated. Microsoft does have some consumer-facing products, such as Minecraft and XBox. But most importantly, it wasn't one of the big four technology companies -- Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Google -- that just this week testified before Congress about having too much power. Perhaps it should have been. For the last few years, it's been right alongside Apple as one of the most valuable companies on the planet.But if Microsoft sees a window to help the U.S. government score a victory over China, antitrust considerations likely won't come into play. Nadella may be focused on businesses, but he probably knows a good deal when he sees one.Disclosure: Comcast is the owner of NBCUniversal, parent company of CNBC and CNBC.com.WATCH: Microsoft's potential TikTok acquisitionVIDEO3:1303:13Jon Fortt weighs in on Microsoft's potential TikTok acquisitionClosing BellSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2020/10/06, Sundar Pichai, CEO of GoogleAnindito Mukherjee | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesGoogle parent Alphabet announced on Tuesday that its G Suite group of productivity apps, including Gmail, will be rebranded as Google Workspace and get more pricing tiers. The new name better reflects the way various applications, such as the Google Meet video-calling service, are available from other applications, such as Google Docs.The changes might help Google increase revenue and become a more formidable challenger to Microsoft, whose Office 365 applications are more popular for business use. Any growth could lift Google's cloud business, which reduces Alphabet's dependence on Google's advertising business, an operation that faltered in the second quarter under the pressure of a pandemic and a recession. Consumer services from Google such as Gmail and Google Drive are widely used, and the company has for years sought to replicate that success inside companies, schools and nonprofits. But Microsoft remains dominant in the email and document authoring software market, with 87.6% share in 2019, according to research company Gartner. Google had 11.5% share, up from 10.5% in 2018.The Basic and Business versions of G Suite, which had cost $6 and $12 per user per month, will remain available as Business Starter and Business Standard plans for customers with 300 or fewer seats. A new Business Plus option with greater security features will cost $18 per user per month. There is also a new Essentials tier for teams and departments, which will be available for $8 per user per month. Large businesses can contact Google's salespeople, as was the case before. The new offerings "should translate into much more value to customers, for sure," said Javier Soltero, vice president and general manager of Google Workspace.In addition to the name and pricing changes, Google is rebranding the logos of several services to use all four colors in the main Google logo, and is introducing a handful of new features. For instance, when a user mentions a colleague by name in a document, other users will be able to hover over the name to find contact information. In addition, the team communication app Google Chat will allow users to create documents from inside their text conversations.Google previously tried branding changes to boost its business products.In 2014, Google rebranded Google Enterprise, which encompassed many of its products for businesses, as Google for Work. In 2016, Google's cloud chief at the time, Diane Greene, introduced the G Suite brand to encompass Google Docs, Google Sheets and other productivity apps. Previously, those online services were known as Google Apps, a name first used in 2006. Around the same time, the company rebranded other Google for Work services as Google Cloud.Former Oracle executive Thomas Kurian replaced Greene as Google's cloud leader in January 2019, and Google raised prices for G Suite around that time. In October 2019, Soltero joined Google from Microsoft, where he had been a corporate vice president working on Office and the Cortana virtual assistant.In February, Alphabet began disclosing quarterly cloud revenue. It booked $3 billion in Q2, up 43% from the year-ago quarter.WATCH: Google's work-from-home order extended to June 2021VIDEO2:0302:03Google's work-from-home order extended to June 2021Power Lunch

2020/09/11, VIDEO4:2104:21Apple App store policy update will affect Microsoft and Google game streaming appsThe ExchangeApple revised its App Store guidelines on Friday ahead of the release of iOS 14, the latest version of the iPhone operating system, which is expected later this month. Apple's employees use these guidelines to approve or deny apps and updates on the App Store. Those rules have come under intense scrutiny in recent weeks from app makers who argue iPhone maker has too much control over what software runs on iPhones and how Apple takes a cut of payments from those apps. In particular, Epic Games, the maker of Fortnite, is in a bitter legal battle with Apple over several of its guidelines, including its requirement to use in-app purchases for digital products. Apple removed Fortnite from its app store last month.One major update on Friday relates to game streaming services. Microsoft and Facebook have publicly said in recent months that Apple's rules have restricted what their gaming apps can do on iPhones and iPads. Microsoft's xCloud service isn't available on iOS, and Facebook's gaming app lacks games on iPhones. Apple now says that game streaming services, such as Google Stadia and Microsoft xCloud, are explicitly permitted. But there are conditions: Games offered in the service need to be downloaded directly from the App Store, not from an all-in-one app. App makers are permitted to release a so-called "catalog app" that links to other games in the service, but each game will need to be an individual app.Apple's rules mean that if a streaming game service has 100 games, then each of those games will need an individual App Store listing as well as a developer relationship with Apple. The individual games also have to have some basic functionality when they're downloaded. All the games and the stores need to offer in-app purchase using Apple's payment processing system, under which Apple usually takes 30% of revenue. "This remains a bad experience for customers. Gamers want to jump directly into a game from their curated catalog within one app just like they do with movies or songs, and not be forced to download over 100 apps to play individual games from the cloud," a Microsoft representative said in a statement. A Google representative declined to comment. The rules underscore the tension between Apple's control of its platform, which it says is for safety and security reasons, and emerging gaming services considered by many to be the future of the gaming industry. Gaming streaming services want to act as a platform for game makers, such as approving individual games and deciding which games to offer, but Apple wants the streaming services to act more like a bundle of games and says it will need to review each individual game. Apple does not have a cloud gaming service, but it does sell a subscription bundle of iOS games called Apple Arcade.Another change relates to in-person classes purchased inside an iPhone app. This spring, amid the pandemic, several companies that previously enabled users to book in-person products, like Classpass, started offering virtual classes. Apple's rules previously said that virtual classes were required to use Apple's in-app payment process.Apple's new guidelines say that one-on-one in-person virtual classes, like fitness training, can bypass Apple for payment, but classes where one instructor is teaching more a class with multiple people will still require apps to use Apple's in-app purchases. Apple also addressed an issue raised by companies like Wordpress and Hey, and loosened the requirement for free apps to use in-app purchases.A full log of the App Store changes is available on Apple's website. VIDEO3:5603:56How to take free classes from Harvard and other top collegesInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.

2020/07/23, In this articleMSFTGOOGLAlphabet CEO Sundar Pichai gestures during a session at the World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, on January 22, 2020.Fabrice COFFRINI | AFP | Getty ImagesMicrosoft's advertising business struggled last quarter, as advertisers cut their budgets during the coronavirus pandemic and corresponding spike in U.S. unemployment.That outcome could spell bad news for search advertising rival Google, whose parent company Alphabet reports second quarter earnings next week.On Wednesday, Microsoft said that search revenue minus traffic acquisition costs fell 18% from the year-ago quarter as customers spent less on ads. One quarter ago, that part of Microsoft's business was up 1% year-over-year, while Google search ad revenue declined 9.4%. Google's search engine is more widely used than Microsoft's Bing; Google had about 84% market share in June, while Bing had 6%, according to NetMarketShare.Microsoft as a whole saw slower growth as the coronavirus affected many parts of its business last quarter, but portions of its business like gaming, cloud infrastructure and productivity software helped smooth out the results as people remained at home around the world to reduce spread of the coronavirus. Alphabet is less diversified than Microsoft, with 84% of its revenue coming from Google advertising in the first quarter.Analysts polled by Refinitiv currently expect $37.35 billion in second-quarter revenue from Alphabet, suggesting a 4% year-over-year decline. A Google spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Amy Hood, Microsoft's chief financial officer, said Wednesday that the company expects search revenue for the current quarter, excluding traffic acquisition costs, to be down "in the low 20% range." (Microsoft's fiscal year ended June 30.)Amid a broad sell-off in tech stocks on Thursday, Alphabet Class A shares were down as much as 3.5% and Microsoft stock traded as much as 4.4% lower.WATCH: Google tells employees they cannot expense food, other perks from homeVIDEO0:3600:36Google tells employees they cannot expense food, other perks from homeClosing Bell

2020/07/31, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella speaking at the 2016 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.David A. Grogan | CNBC Microsoft has held talks to buy the TikTok video-sharing mobile app from Chinese owner ByteDance, one person close to the situation said. This person characterized the talks as having been underway for some time, rather than being brand new. A TikTok acquisition could make Microsoft, a major provider of business software, more concentrated on consumer technology, which Microsoft has moved away from somewhat in recent years, by exiting the smartphone hardware, fitness hardware and e-book markets. Microsoft bought LinkedIn for $27 billion in 2016. In 2014, the company paid $2.5 billion to purchase game developer Mojang, whose Minecraft title is popular among younger users who also make up TikTok's core audience in the U.S.VIDEO5:3405:34A number of companies including Microsoft are looking to acquire TikTok: The NY Times' Mike IsaacClosing BellChinese company ByteDance launched TikTok in 2017. The app has grown more popular during the coronavirus pandemic, with 2 billion downloads in April, according to Sensor Tower. Competitors include Facebook and Snap.ByteDance investors seeking to take over TikTok have valued it at $50 billion, Reuters reported earlier this week.The rise of TikTok in the U.S. has prompted the Trump Administration to scrutinize the app. Earlier this week Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said it was being reviewed by his department's Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. "We're looking at TikTok, we may be banning TikTok, we may be doing some other things, there's a couple of options but a lot of things are happening, we'll see what happens," President Donald Trump said on the White House's South Lawn on Friday. "We are looking at a lot of alternatives with respect to TikTok."Microsoft declined to comment on the talks, which were first reported by Fox Business Network."While we do not comment on rumors or speculation, we are confident in the long-term success of TikTok," TikTok said in a statement Friday.Microsoft shares closed up less than 1% on Friday.-- CNBC's Jessica Bursztynsky, Steve Kopack and Alex Sherman contributed to this report.WATCH: Microsoft in talks to buy TikTok: The New York Times VIDEO0:5800:58Microsoft in talks to buy TikTok: The New York TimesPower Lunch

2020/10/27, In this articleJNPRAFEYEFSLRMSFTKevin Mandia, CEO, FireEye Scott Mlyn | CNBCCheck out the companies making headlines midday after hours on Tuesday:Microsoft — Microsoft shares whipsawed after the tech giant reported better-than-expected results for the previous quarter. The company posted an adjusted profit of $1.82 per share on revenue of $37.15 billion. Analysts expected earnings per share of $1.54 on revenue of $35.72 billion. Microsoft's cloud segment saw its revenue expand by 20% on a year-over-year basis.First Solar — Shares of the solar-panel maker popped more than 16% after the company posted quarterly earnings that beat analyst expectations. First Solar posted earnings per share of $1.45 on revenue of $928 million. Analysts expected earnings of 61 cents per share on sales of $688 million, according to Refinitiv. The company also issued better-than-expected earnings guidance for the fourth quarter.FireEye — FireEye gained more than 4%, boosted by better-than-expected third-quarter results. The cybersecurity company posted a profit of 11 cents per share on revenue of $238 million. Analysts polled by Refinitiv had forecast earnings per share of 7 cents on revenue of $228 million. Sales from its product, subscription and support services were better than expected.Chubb — Shares of the insurance giant climbed 2% on the back of third-quarter revenue that beat analyst expectations. The company said its revenue for the quarter came in at $8.47 billion, topping a Refinitiv estimate of $8.16 billion.  Chubb's earnings per share, however, fell short of estimates.Juniper Networks — Juniper Networks saw its stock rise more than 3% after the networking technology company released its results for the third quarter. Juniper's earnings per share came in at 43 cents, matching a FactSet estimate. Product and service revenues were also above analyst expectations.VIDEO0:5100:51Billionaire Ray Dalio has two pieces of advice for the average investorInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.

2020/07/31, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella speaking at the 2016 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.David A. Grogan | CNBC Microsoft has held talks to buy the TikTok video-sharing mobile app from Chinese owner ByteDance, one person close to the situation said. This person characterized the talks as having been underway for some time, rather than being brand new. A TikTok acquisition could make Microsoft, a major provider of business software, more concentrated on consumer technology, which Microsoft has moved away from somewhat in recent years, by exiting the smartphone hardware, fitness hardware and e-book markets. Microsoft bought LinkedIn for $27 billion in 2016. In 2014, the company paid $2.5 billion to purchase game developer Mojang, whose Minecraft title is popular among younger users who also make up TikTok's core audience in the U.S.VIDEO5:3405:34A number of companies including Microsoft are looking to acquire TikTok: The NY Times' Mike IsaacClosing BellChinese company ByteDance launched TikTok in 2017. The app has grown more popular during the coronavirus pandemic, with 2 billion downloads in April, according to Sensor Tower. Competitors include Facebook and Snap.ByteDance investors seeking to take over TikTok have valued it at $50 billion, Reuters reported earlier this week.The rise of TikTok in the U.S. has prompted the Trump Administration to scrutinize the app. Earlier this week Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said it was being reviewed by his department's Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. "We're looking at TikTok, we may be banning TikTok, we may be doing some other things, there's a couple of options but a lot of things are happening, we'll see what happens," President Donald Trump said on the White House's South Lawn on Friday. "We are looking at a lot of alternatives with respect to TikTok."Microsoft declined to comment on the talks, which were first reported by Fox Business Network."While we do not comment on rumors or speculation, we are confident in the long-term success of TikTok," TikTok said in a statement Friday.Microsoft shares closed up less than 1% on Friday.-- CNBC's Jessica Bursztynsky, Steve Kopack and Alex Sherman contributed to this report.WATCH: Microsoft in talks to buy TikTok: The New York Times VIDEO0:5800:58Microsoft in talks to buy TikTok: The New York TimesPower Lunch

2020/08/23, This illustration picture shows a person waiting for an update of Epic Games' Fortnite on their smartphone in Los Angeles on August 14, 2020.Chris Delmas | AFP | Getty ImagesMicrosoft has stepped into the brewing legal battle between Apple and Epic Games over the former's policies with regard to its ubiquitous App Store. In a declaration filed on Sunday, a senior Microsoft engineer said that allowing Apple to block Epic Games' developer account would deal a significant blow to game makers including Microsoft by making them unable to use Epic's Unreal Engine. The Unreal Engine, a type of gaming engine, is a widely used set of technologies that provides a framework for the creation of three dimensional graphics. Epic licenses the engine to companies that use the technology for a fee. "If Unreal Engine cannot support games for iOS or macOS, Microsoft would be required to choose between abandoning its customers and potential customers on the iOS and macOS platforms or choosing a different game engine when preparing to develop new games," Kevin Gammill, Microsoft's general manager for Gaming Developer Experiences, said in the declaration.He added that "Apple's discontinuation of Epic's ability to develop and support Unreal Engine for iOS or macOS will harm game creators and gamers."While there are alternative gaming engines, Gammill said that "very few" are available with as many features and the same functionality. The declaration came as part of a lawsuit brought by Epic against Apple over the iPhone maker's rules guaranteeing itself a 30% cut of in-app purchases. The suit is filed in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Epic Games tested Apple's policy by sidestepping the rule in an update to its hit game Fortnite, and then sued after Apple removed the game from the App Store. The company has brought a similar suit against Google over its Play Store.In addition to removing Fortnite from the App Store, Apple has threatened to cut off Epic's access to development tools necessary to create software including the Unreal Engine as soon as Friday.Epic has asked the court to temporarily prevent Apple from doing so as it weighs the case more fully. Gammill's declaration came in support of Epic's motion for that temporary reprieve. A hearing on Epic's motion is scheduled for Monday afternoon. Representatives for Apple and Microsoft did not immediately return requests for comment. Apple has previously said that "the problem Epic has created for itself is one that can easily be remedied if they submit an update of their app that reverts it to comply with the guidelines they agreed to and which apply to all developers."According to Epic, the impact of cutting off its access to the Unreal Engine would go beyond gaming.Nicholas Penwarden, the company's vice president of engineering, filed a declaration on Sunday saying that it has received "numerous inquiries and expressions of concern" from companies to which it has licensed the Unreal Engine, including at least one business that does automotive design. Penwarden did not specifically name any companies, though, saying Epic could not obtain consent to do so on short notice. 

2020/06/26, VIDEO1:1501:15Microsoft announces it will permanently close all its retail storesSquawk on the StreetMicrosoft on Friday announced it will permanently close its 83 Microsoft Store retail locations. It will instead focus on its online store at Microsoft.com, where customers can go for support, sales, training and more.Microsoft said its retail team members will help on the website instead of in-store. A Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC that all the employees will have the opportunity to stay with the company. "Our sales have grown online as our product portfolio has evolved to largely digital offerings, and our talented team has proven success serving customers beyond any physical location," Microsoft Corporate Vice President David Porter said in a blog post. "We are grateful to our Microsoft Store customers and we look forward to continuing to serve them online and with our retail sales team at Microsoft corporate locations."Shares of Microsoft closed down 2% on Friday.In the past decade or so, Microsoft began to expand its retail presence in an effort to create a shopping experience similar to Apple's, where people could go to try new Microsoft software and hardware created by both Microsoft and its partners. Microsoft even built a store on 5th Avenue in New York City, just blocks away from Apple's iconic glass cube store.VIDEO4:3604:36This company embraced the coronavirus economy and now it is hiring workersInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.The decision seems to be made after Microsoft decided to temporarily close stores in March due to the spread of the coronavirus. Microsoft said the closing of its physical locations will "result in a pre-tax charge of approximately $450 million, or $0.05 per share," which it will record in the current quarter that ends on June 30. "The charge includes primarily asset write-offs and impairments," the company said."Microsoft will continue to invest in its digital storefronts on Microsoft.com, and stores in Xbox and Windows, reaching more than 1.2 billion people every month in 190 markets," it said. "The company will also reimagine spaces that serve all customers, including operating Microsoft Experience Centers in London, NYC, Sydney, and Redmond campus locations."Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/08/03, A man holding a phone walks past a sign of Chinese company ByteDance's app TikTok, known locally as Douyin, at the International Artificial Products Expo in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China October 18, 2019.ReutersQuestions are being asked about TikTok's future in Europe after Microsoft confirmed Sunday it is in discussions to buy TikTok in the U.S., Canada, Australia, and New Zealand.TikTok parent company ByteDance, which is headquartered in Beijing, is being forced to consider a sale after President Donald Trump said he intends to ban the video sharing app in the U.S. over fears that it could share data with the Chinese government. TikTok has repeatedly denied the allegations.Microsoft said in a statement that it will keep working with the U.S. government on a deal and that it intends to conclude talks by September 15. It's unclear how much Microsoft is prepared to pay and TikTok declined to comment on the discussions.If the deal were to go through, would ByteDance be able to continue operating TikTok across Europe? Michael Norris, a research and strategy manager at Shanghai-based consultancy AgencyChina, thinks so. "TikTok's business in Europe doesn't appear to be on the table," he told CNBC Monday. "At this stage, it looks like ByteDance is confident in TikTok's ability to operate in European markets."If the deal goes through, Microsoft would operate TikTok in four countries while ByteDance would operate it in over 100 other countries. "The same product operated by different parties in different jurisdictions seems unprecedented," Norris said. "These considerations, including compliant operating models and relevant transfers of technology, infrastructure, and access, will complicate acquisition negotiations."While European governments have raised some concerns, they haven't gone as far as saying they'll ban TikTok, which has become wildly popular in the last couple of years, racking up over 2 billion downloads worldwide, according to app tracker Sensor Tower.A U.K. government spokesperson said: "We always take steps to ensure users are properly protected from attempts by companies to misuse or exploit their personal data.""TikTok is subject to the data privacy rules set out under GDPR. This is the same for all mobile app providers that collect and process personal data.""In relation to our wider online harms work, we are developing some of the most stringent laws in the world to make the U.K. a safer place to be online. These will put a duty of care on social media platforms to manage people's personal data, overseen by an independent regulator."In a bid to distance itself from Beijing and reassure Western nations, TikTok withdrew from Hong Kong after China introduced new sweeping national security laws.TikTok has also hired an American chief executive and set up local offices around the world. Last month, the company said it wanted to hire 10,000 staff in the U.S. over the next three years, and it has already hired several key executives from Google and Facebook.ByteDance is also planning to set up a new international headquarters for TikTok outside of China. The question is, where will it be? Los Angeles, which is home to TikTok's biggest office, was the obvious front-runner but the impending U.S. ban and the potential Microsoft deal complicate matters.International HQ in London?According to a report from British tabloid newspaper The Sun, TikTok is now planning to make London the home of its international headquarters. The move could reportedly see ByteDance's founder Zhang Yiming and TikTok's creator Alex Zhu relocate to London.Other possible alternatives outside the U.S. include Singapore and Dublin.Late Sunday, ByteDance said that it is "committed to becoming a global company" but it has faced "all kinds of complex and unimaginable difficulties," according to a CNBC translation of a company statement.U.S. tech giants like Facebook and Alphabet's YouTube compete directly with TikTok and tensions have been growing between the firms. On Monday, ByteDance accused Facebook of "plagiarism and smear" without elaborating.Much of how TikTok works, from its data storage to its algorithms have been shrouded in mystery but the company pledged to become more transparent last week and it urged others to do the same.TikTok is the international version of ByteDance's Douyin, which operates in China.

2020/07/23, In this article6758.T-JPMSFTPhil Spencer, executive vice president at Microsoft, speaks at the company's Xbox One X reveal event ahead of the E3 Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles on June 11, 2017.Patrick T. Fallon | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft pulled the wraps off a slew of new video games in a bid to impress gamers ahead of the release of its upcoming Xbox Series X console.The company kicked off its hotly-anticipated online games showcase Thursday with gameplay from its upcoming "Halo Infinite" title, which is the sixth main instalment in the "Halo" franchise. The game series is arguably one of the defining franchises of Microsoft's Xbox brand.The "Halo Infinite" reveal began with a look at the sci-fi shooter game's campaign story, which features main protagonist Master Chief battling alien enemies in similar fashion to its predecessors. Players will this time able to use a grappling hook to get up close and personal with enemies. The game also features a new villain named War Chief Escharum.One surprising announcement from Microsoft came in the form of "Fable," the first new title in the role-playing game franchise of the same name after developer Lionhead was closed in 2016. The unveiling of the game was scant on detail.Next-gen consolesMicrosoft didn't divulge any new information about its upcoming console, though. The Xbox Series X is due later this year, setting the stage for a fresh console war with Sony, which is gearing up to launch its own new device, the PlayStation 5. Both companies have been unable to market their next-gen consoles and games physically due to the coronavirus pandemic, and there have been fears this could delay the release of the new machines. Although both Microsoft and Sony have said the new gadgets are on track to launch in the holiday shopping season this year.VIDEO0:0100:01Xbox head Phil Spencer on the surge in demand for Xbox LiveSquawk AlleyIn fact, the outbreak has even seen a surge in video game sales due to government-enforced lockdowns around the globe. In Microsoft's fourth-quarter earnings report, the tech giant said Xbox content and services revenue rose 65% with record engagement as people stayed home and played games.Other games featured at Microsoft's big event Thursday included: "Avowed""State of Decay 3""As Dusk Falls""Forza Motorsport""The Gunk""Tell Me Why"Microsoft's Xbox unit is also increasingly banking on cloud gaming. The company recently announced it would launch its xCloud streaming service commercially in September, bundling it with its paid subscription service Xbox Game Pass which gives gamers access to a catalog of games.Microsoft said that "Destiny 2," a first-person shooter game made by former "Halo" developer Bungie, would be coming to Game Pass in September, meaning gamers will be able to play it on their smartphone or tablet as well as console or PC. A new expansion pack for the game, "Beyond Light," will arrive in November on Game Pass as well.VIDEO4:4704:47Moor Insights & Strategy President says Microsoft is 'Covid proof'Closing Bell

2020/07/14, The Kano PC, built by London-based startup Kano in partnership with Microsoft.KanoMicrosoft is betting that a British computing start-up can take on Google in the educational technology industry, which has thrived during the coronavirus pandemic.London-headquartered Kano, which is focused on teaching kids how to code, raised more than $1 million in an investment from Microsoft, with the tech giant taking a minority stake. The company has raised a total of about $45.5 million to date from investors including Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff.The deal, announced Tuesday, expands on an existing partnership with Microsoft on Kano's bright orange Windows-powered PC. It also sees Kano join the ranks of large IT players like Lenovo and Dell in obtaining original equipment manufacturer licensing from Microsoft.That means Kano is now able to ship its PCs with Windows 10 Pro — a premium version of Microsoft's operating system — to schools and has also formed a co-selling agreement with Microsoft.Kano has received a tender from the Japanese government to sell 3 million of its devices in the country and is in talks to sell thousands of units in the United Arab Emirates. The firm's PC retails at $299, cheaper than Microsoft's Surface Go hybrid PC and on par with some of Google's cheaper Chromebook computers.Growing demand for 'edtech'It comes as demand for educational technology, or "edtech," has surged amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Lockdowns across the world caused nationwide school closures in 190 countries at the peak of the pandemic in mid-April, impacting 90% of the world's pupils.Meanwhile, the global PC market has recently returned to growth after suffering its worst decline in sales since 2013. According to Gartner, worldwide PC shipments grew 2.8% in the second quarter, as demand for laptops and tablets increased and vendors recovered from coronavirus-related supply chain disruptions.VIDEO4:3104:31Kano using Harry Potter to help teach coding to kidsSquawk BoxKano started out in 2013 as a venture aimed at teaching kids how to build their own computers and code. It gained traction selling easy-to-build computer kits based on compact Raspberry Pi circuit boards that came with the open-source Linux operating system. While it hasn't retired the Raspberry Pi kits altogether, CEO and co-founder Alex Klein told CNBC that the company has increased investment into the PC it built in partnership with Microsoft. Klein said the Linux-based computers created an "accessibility barrier" for some users but stressed his firm hasn't forgotten the "punk rock spirit" it embraced in its early days of existence.Competing with GoogleA big part of the deal, Klein said, is helping his company compete with Google in the multi-billion dollar educational computing market.Google's Chromebooks have swiftly become the top-selling computers in U.S. schools over the years. In 2018, they made up 60% of all laptops and tablets in K-12 classrooms, up from just 5% in 2012, according to data from consulting firm Futuresource. Microsoft accounted for 22% of the market in 2018, while Apple trailed behind on 18%."We shouldn't be putting Chromebooks in the hands of kids," Klein said, referring to a warning from international non-profit Electronic Frontier Foundation that the devices enable spying on students. "They're catching your data all the time."For its part, Google has said it's committed to maintaining students' privacy and doesn't use their data for advertising purposes.Speaking about Kano's deeper ties with Microsoft, Klein said he was "inspired" by Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella's commitment to open-source technology. In recent years, the tech giant has bought the software development platform GitHub and built its Edge browser based on source code from Google's open-source Chromium project.As well as PCs, Kano also sells motion-sensing coding kits based on AT&T-owned Warners Bros' "Harry Potter" franchise and Disney's "Star Wars" series. Once assembled, the devices allow users to create code and interact with Kano's software.But Kano has yet to turn a profit. It racked up losses of £11 million in the 12 months to March 2018. The start-up also laid off around 15 employees late last year, though Klein says it hasn't had to make any redundancies or furloughs during the coronavirus pandemic.

2020/07/23, In this article6758.T-JPMSFTPhil Spencer, executive vice president at Microsoft, speaks at the company's Xbox One X reveal event ahead of the E3 Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles on June 11, 2017.Patrick T. Fallon | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft pulled the wraps off a slew of new video games in a bid to impress gamers ahead of the release of its upcoming Xbox Series X console.The company kicked off its hotly-anticipated online games showcase Thursday with gameplay from its upcoming "Halo Infinite" title, which is the sixth main instalment in the "Halo" franchise. The game series is arguably one of the defining franchises of Microsoft's Xbox brand.The "Halo Infinite" reveal began with a look at the sci-fi shooter game's campaign story, which features main protagonist Master Chief battling alien enemies in similar fashion to its predecessors. Players will this time able to use a grappling hook to get up close and personal with enemies. The game also features a new villain named War Chief Escharum.One surprising announcement from Microsoft came in the form of "Fable," the first new title in the role-playing game franchise of the same name after developer Lionhead was closed in 2016. The unveiling of the game was scant on detail.Next-gen consolesMicrosoft didn't divulge any new information about its upcoming console, though. The Xbox Series X is due later this year, setting the stage for a fresh console war with Sony, which is gearing up to launch its own new device, the PlayStation 5. Both companies have been unable to market their next-gen consoles and games physically due to the coronavirus pandemic, and there have been fears this could delay the release of the new machines. Although both Microsoft and Sony have said the new gadgets are on track to launch in the holiday shopping season this year.VIDEO0:0100:01Xbox head Phil Spencer on the surge in demand for Xbox LiveSquawk AlleyIn fact, the outbreak has even seen a surge in video game sales due to government-enforced lockdowns around the globe. In Microsoft's fourth-quarter earnings report, the tech giant said Xbox content and services revenue rose 65% with record engagement as people stayed home and played games.Other games featured at Microsoft's big event Thursday included: "Avowed""State of Decay 3""As Dusk Falls""Forza Motorsport""The Gunk""Tell Me Why"Microsoft's Xbox unit is also increasingly banking on cloud gaming. The company recently announced it would launch its xCloud streaming service commercially in September, bundling it with its paid subscription service Xbox Game Pass which gives gamers access to a catalog of games.Microsoft said that "Destiny 2," a first-person shooter game made by former "Halo" developer Bungie, would be coming to Game Pass in September, meaning gamers will be able to play it on their smartphone or tablet as well as console or PC. A new expansion pack for the game, "Beyond Light," will arrive in November on Game Pass as well.VIDEO4:4704:47Moor Insights & Strategy President says Microsoft is 'Covid proof'Closing Bell

2020/07/21, In this articleMSFTRecent data from LinkedIn shows the skills that are most in-demand as the labor market attempts to slowly regain its footing after the steep decline caused by Covid-19.Aytac Unal | Anadolu Agency | Getty ImagesMicrosoft-owned LinkedIn said on Tuesday it will cut about 960 jobs, or 6% of its global workforce, as the coronavirus pandemic is having a sustained impact on demand for its recruitment products. The news comes ahead of Microsoft's fourth quarter earnings on Wednesday.LinkedIn helps businesses and employees match one another but, with fewer companies hiring, LinkedIn's business has taken a hit, CEO Ryan Roslansky said in a blog post announcing the cuts."Our Talent Solutions business continues to be impacted as fewer companies, including ours, need to hire at the same volume they did previously," Roslansky explained.Microsoft bought LinkedIn for $26.2 billion in 2016. It's Microsoft's biggest acquisition ever, though Microsoft had largely left LinkedIn untouched under former CEO Jeff Weiner, who stepped down from his position effective June 1.As of February, LinkedIn represented almost 6% of Microsoft's total revenue and was one of the fastest growing Microsoft businesses. But, in its last earnings report, Microsoft warned that there was a slowdown in advertising spend in LinkedIn during the final weeks of the quarter as the coronavirus started to impact businesses around the world. The company is scheduled to report earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter on Wednesday.Roslansky said LinkedIn plans to move two separate media businesses, including its LinkedIn Marketing Solutions and its Talent Solutions business, into a single entity so that LinkedIn doesn't have to "continue duplicating costly platforms, systems, and tools internally."Jobs will be cut across LinkedIn's Global Sales and Talent Acquisitions organizations.LinkedIn will begin to focus on online sales instead of in-person sales, with a new focus on its online storefront. "This online channel approach will allow us to better serve the millions of small businesses that will need LinkedIn through this pandemic and beyond—and aligns with how we plan to focus our field sales efforts on our higher value relationships," Roslansky said."Normally, we would have rolled out our annual plan at the end of June. But as I've shared at the Company All Hands, this year we've been taking our time to get the FY21 plan right given the changing dynamics around us."Roslansky said these are the only layoffs planned for the company. Affected staff, who have not yet been told, would be able to keep company-issued cell phones, laptops, and recently purchased equipment to help them work from home while making career transitions, he said.LinkedIn said employees affected by its job cuts will be informed this week and they will start receiving invitations in the next few hours to meetings to learn more about next steps."If you don't receive a meeting invite, you are not directly impacted by this change," Roslansky said.Reuters contributed to this report.Correction: This story was updated to reflect LinkedIn is merging its marketing solutions group with its talent solutions business.

2020/09/21, In this articleGOOGLAMZNMSFTAAPLVIDEO2:2602:26Jim Cramer says Apple, Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet have fallen to attractive valuationsMad Money with Jim CramerCNBC's Jim Cramer told investors Monday it is time to start buying the stocks of Apple, Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet, saying the tech behemoths have reached attractive valuations after September declines. The "Mad Money" host offered the advice following a more than 500 point decline in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, while the S&P 500 gave up 1.2%. The benchmark equity index recorded its fourth straight daily loss for first time since February and is down more than 6% in September. "This wasn't day one of the decline, people. We're now two weeks into a gigantic sell-off and everything's being thrown away except a handful of lockdown stocks. Better to buy them when they're down than chasing them when they're up," Cramer said. "I just hope you have some cash on the sidelines to take advantage of the weakness." Cramer said his charitable trust was putting cash to work Monday in stocks that have been caught up in the September swoon and "finally got low enough to be attractive." Apple, in particular, has reached an enticing level, he said. The iPhone maker closed higher by about 3% Monday at $110.08 per share but it is still down almost 20% since its all-time high of $137.98 on Sept. 2. "I don't care that it's up 50% for the year, it has more catalysts than nearly any other stock under the sun: new revenue streams, great balance sheet, stay-at-home economy exposure and, of course, 5G," Cramer said. "Now that it's come down from its highs ... I think you have to buy it." Cramer said he feels the same way about shares of Microsoft, Amazon and Google-parent Alphabet.Microsoft, which on Monday announced the biggest gaming acquisition in its history, rose by just over 1% during the session. Despite remaining up about 28% so far in 2020, the stock is down more than 10% in September. Amazon, for its part, is down about 14% during the month after a major run-up in the stock in recent months as the coronavirus pandemic accelerated the shift to online shopping. The e-commerce and cloud giant hit an all-time high of $3,552 on Sept. 2 but closed Monday at $2,960. Likewise, on Sept. 2, Alphabet notched a record high of $1,726 per share. It is down over 16% since, ending Monday's trading session at $1,430. "As someone who turned bearish on these tech stocks weeks ago because I felt like we were getting greedy ... I say the tech downdraft now seems like an opportunity, Cramer said. "One thing's for certain, you sure aren't buying them at the top," he added.Cramer said he sees lessons in the "healthy" pullbacks that have been experienced lately, particularly for novice investors who got into the market during the early days of coronavirus-related uncertainty and were along for the robust rally from late March lows. "We had an awful lot of people thinking that 2020 was a replay of 1999 when this market just went up, up, up. Turns out it's not 1999. We didn't get these kinds of vicious declines that shook out the weak hands back then," Cramer said.Yet, he said the declines are actually instructive in a market that will remain influenced by coronavirus concerns and the latest developments in Washington, where lawmakers' pursuit of additional stimulus to aid the pandemic-inflicted economy grew more complicated by the death of Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.  Investors need to remember that for stocks, "when they go down hard ... it shakes everybody out," he said. But, he added, "I think the reversal today ... was your key to start doing some buying, not some selling. ... The uncertainties, the disarray, the mayhem—it's not going to go away."VIDEO9:2409:24Cramer advises investors to start buying Apple, Microsoft, Amazon and AlphabetMad Money with Jim CramerDisclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Apple, Microsoft, Amazon and Alphabet.DisclaimerQuestions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2020/05/22, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp.Daniel Berman | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe coronavirus didn't stop Microsoft from issuing a flood of news in its annual Build conference this week.Now in its 10th year, Build is where the company connects with the millions of software developers who build applications for Windows, Azure and its other platforms. More than 200,000 people registered for the two-day event, company spokesman Frank Shaw said on Twitter.Microsoft needs to engage developers so they'll keep building applications for its platforms and on its data center infrastructure. Because of the pandemic, this year's conference was held entirely online, with several executives and engineers contributing to the live video feed from their homes.Microsoft used the conference as an opportunity to bolster key areas, rather than to demonstrate next-generation technology or tapping celebrities to attract more attendees, as Facebook and Salesforce have done. Areas of focus included its Azure public cloud, the fast-growing Teams communication app, which is increasingly at the center of the all-important Office portfolio, and a forthcoming app called Lists.Here are some of the most significant announcements:A cloud for health care. Microsoft is setting off on a vertical-specific strategy to keep cloud franchises like Azure and Dynamics growing, starting with health care. The offering, which is available as a free trial for six months, will make it easier for health systems to quickly take advantage of industry-focused features that already exist in multiple products, including Teams. Fairer and more private AI. Microsoft is enhancing the Azure Machine Learning cloud service with open-source tools designed to make AI systems behave more fairly for people of different ages and genders, and make calculations without looking at the underlying information. In the recent years, people have criticized implementations of AI that lead to mistaken and embarrassing results, and the technology could be appealing to developers keen on preventing blunders like that.Cloud supercomputer. Microsoft said it has built an Azure-based supercomputer for AI research company OpenAI, which it invested in last year. "As we've learned more and more about what we need and the different limits of all the components that make up a supercomputer, we were really able to say, 'If we could design our dream system, what would it look like?' And then Microsoft was able to build it," OpenAI CEO Sam Altman said. The technology could help OpenAI more quickly arrive at research breakthroughs. Although Microsoft has not yet designed its own AI chips, unlike cloud rivals Amazon and Google, it now appears that Microsoft is capable of assembling compelling AI hardware, which could strengthen its reputation in that area. The launch of the project shows that Microsoft is willing to operate special-purpose equipment to meet the unusual demands of a single customer rather than offering simple least-common-denominator computing resources. There are no signs Microsoft intends to expose the supercomputer for wider use, though; the company said it's exclusively available to OpenAI.Chat for developers. Programmers typically work alone as they write code, but they're increasingly pairing up to solve problems. Microsoft has previously released technology to enable team development work in its code-editing applications. Now, it's rolling out tools so programmers can have text chats and voice calls inside the open-source Visual Studio Code editor, without getting distracted by switching apps.Faster Teams development. Microsoft now has an extension developers can download for Visual Studio Code to accelerate the process of writing and releasing a third-party tool for Teams. Competing communication app Slack has a lively ecosystem of integrations, and the extension could boost the supply of integrations available for Teams, so that people can accomplish ever more in the app. Unlike Microsoft, Slack does not maintain a popular code editor.Lists. When Microsoft releases a new stand-alone app called Microsoft Lists this summer, consumers and businesses will have one more reason to subscribe to the Microsoft 365 (formerly Office 365) productivity bundle. It's more customizable than a task-management app like Microsoft To-Do or Atlassian's Trello. Lists can display items in a variety of formats, and the Lists app comes with templates such as an event itinerary and an issue tracker. Like the Airtable service, it can neatly display images. Lists will be available in Teams, and it will be possible to turn an Excel spreadsheet into a List.A new package manager. It takes time to find and install all the apps that you want when you're setting up a new Windows computer. The Windows Package Manager, available in preview, provides a command-line interface to find, install, uninstall and update programs. Microsoft expects developers to use the product, but anyone can try it, so it could help Microsoft keep consumers happy with Windows. Technology news site The Verge said Wednesday that it's "already better than the Windows Store."WATCH: Microsoft chairman John Thompson on outlook for Big TechVIDEO6:3606:36Microsoft chairman John Thompson on outlook for Big TechSquawk Alley

2020/08/24, Frank Slootman, CEO, SnowflakeSource: CNBCSnowflake, one of the fastest-growing cloud software companies in Silicon Valley, filed to go public on Monday after revenue more than doubled in the first half of the year to $242 million.Snowflake's data warehouse technology allows businesses to store and manage data in the cloud rather than on legacy databases, making it easier for clients to quickly access and analyze critical information across the enterprise. The company counts on infrastructure from Amazon, Microsoft and Google to store the data while also competing with services from each vendor.Led by CEO Frank Slootman, who joined the company early last year after retiring from ServiceNow, Snowflake is among the most anticipated IPOs this year. Airbnb is expected to go public in the second half after managing through a slump in revenue from a plunge in travel, and Palantir's public offering is also on the way soon. Late-stage venture-backed tech companies are taking advantage of a surge in the Nasdaq and demand for new names, now that Apple has passed $2 trillion in market cap, and Amazon and Microsoft are both over $1.6 trillion.While Snowflake's revenue jumped from $104 million in the first half of 2019 to $242 million in the same period this year, its gross profit almost tripled, showing that the company is generating more earnings as it grows. Its net loss narrowed to $171.3 million from $177.2 million, which is still a hefty loss but one that investors can likely stomach given its rapid expansion rate.VIDEO5:0305:03Nilay Patel on Airbnb's plan to file IPO: Can the company move its rental stock to rural areas?Squawk AlleySnowflake was founded in 2012 and started selling its platform two years later. Customers listed in the filing include Capital One, Sony, Adobe and McKesson. For the fiscal year ended Jan. 31, Capital One represented 11% of revenue.Snowflake said Capital One migrated to its technology in 2017 and it "spread rapidly to additional lines of business to satisfy latent demand for greater data access within the broader organization and address new business opportunities." Snowflake's cloud data tools help Capital One reduce time required to add new workloads, allow for speedy analytics and meet the bank's "high availability and resiliency needs."Because Snowflake's technology all resides in the cloud, the company has a hefty bill to pay for the infrastructure. It said in the filing that it's committed to spend $1.2 billion between August 2020 and July 2025 on infrastructure services. Most of its business is on Amazon Web Services.Meanwhile, AWS has its own data warehouse called Redshift, Google Cloud Platform's is called BigQuery and Microsoft Azure has a relative newcomer, Synapse. The first line of the competition section in Snowflake's prospectus says that its rivals include "large, well-established, public cloud providers that generally compete in all of our markets, including AWS, Azure, and GCP."Sutter Hill Ventures is Snowflake's largest shareholder, with a 20% stake, followed by Altimeter, ICONIQ, Redpoint Ventures and Sequoia. Slootman owns 5.9% and ex-Microsoft executive Bob Muglia, who Slootman replaced, owns 3.3%.Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are leading the offering. Snowflake plans to list on the New York Stock Exchange under ticker symbol "SNOW."— CNBC's Jordan Novet contributed to this reportWATCH: Snowflake CEO Frank Slootman on the company's $479 million in new fundingVIDEO6:0306:03Snowflake CEO Frank Slootman on the company's $479M in new fundingSquawk Alley

2020/06/22, Gamer Tyler "Ninja" Blevins high-fives fans as he arrives to the Epic Games Fortnite E3 Tournament at the Banc of California Stadium on June 12, 2018, in Los Angeles, California.Christian Petersen | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is giving up on running its own video streaming service for playing games, Mixer, and encouraging people who watch and create content for it to move to Facebook's competing service. The choice shows Microsoft opting to step back from a portion of the game software market where it has failed to gain dominance, although the company remains focused on game development, console hardware and a cloud service for playing games that run on remote servers. It also plans to release a new version of the Xbox video game console later this year.The move comes less than four years after it acquired Beam, the game streaming start-up that Microsoft rebranded to Mixer in 2017. The Beam acquisition followed Amazon's 2014 acquisition of Twitch, which has remained dominant.With people staying home to reduce spread of the coronavirus in recent months, Twitch users spent more time watching people play games, but the increase was not as pronounced for Mixer, despite being smaller, according to a an analysis of data from privately held Stream Hatchet by the Streamlabs, a company whose software helps people run their videos on Twitch and other services."Ultimately, the success of Partners and streamers on Mixer is dependent on our ability to scale the service for them as quickly and broadly as possible," Phil Spencer, the Microsoft executive  vice president in charge of the company's gaming efforts, wrote in a blog post on Monday. "It became clear that the time needed to grow our own livestreaming community to scale was out of measure with the vision and experiences we want to deliver to gamers now, so we've decided to close the operations side of Mixer and help the community transition to a new platform."Microsoft sought to grow the Mixer user base by signing deals with major creators, including Tyler "Ninja" Blevins, to come over to the service. Matt Salsamendi, a co-founder of Beam, announced his departure from Microsoft in October 2019. The Mixer service will remain available through July 22, and after that the homepage will redirect to the Facebook website fb.gg. The ability to stream to Mixer from the Xbox One will go away, although gamers will be able to keep streaming to Twitch.Facebook has been expanding its efforts in gaming in recent years as it looks to find new markets outside of online advertising. It acquired virtual reality headset maker Oculus for $2 billion in 2014, and began selling the Oculus Quest and Oculus Rift S VR headsets in May of this year.In November 2016, Facebook announced Instant Games, consisting of light games for the Facebook and Messenger apps that are built on the HTML5 software stack. The company launched Facebook Gaming, its Twitch rival, in 2018, making it possible for users to livestream their gameplay to others on the social network. The company claims that over 700 million users engage with gaming content in some fashion each month.Facebook and Microsoft see opportunities to work together more, including around the cloud streaming service xCloud, which is in preview."Imagine a scenario where people can instantly move from watching a Facebook Gaming creator's livestream to jumping in and playing the game with their closest friends, all in one click," Vivek Sharma, head of Facebook Gaming, wrote in a blog post. "Project xCloud can help change the way people discover games by expanding our Playable Ads format, enabling Xbox games on your mobile device. While scrolling News Feed, people could try out awesome games from Xbox Game Pass immediately, further blurring the line between discovery and play."Similarly, Spencer wrote that Microsoft is keen to introduce the ability to let people click to play from Facebook Gaming and Instagram.-- CNBC's Salvador Rodriguez contributed to this report.WATCH: Twitch COO Sara Clemens: We're seeing record levels of engagementVIDEO5:3805:38Twitch COO Sara Clemens: We're seeing record levels of engagementSquawk Alley

2020/09/11, In this articleSFYVIDEO1:2001:20The Rams and Chargers set to open high-tech $5 billion SoFi StadiumSportsGoogle on Friday announced it has a multi-year deal to provide its cloud services to SoFi Stadium and the Hollywood Park campus.Google hopes these sorts of sports deals will help it gain traction against Amazon and Microsoft. In March, Google agreed to a partnership with Major League Baseball to operate its stat-tracking system, Statcast, and provide digital infrastructure for everything from team websites to online ticket sales. But, it still lags far behind Amazon and Microsoft, with about a 4% share of the market according to Gartner.Google's cloud services will help power all of the data passing through the state-of-the-art SoFi stadium and will provide a new personal concierge app that offers real-time metrics on gameday. Some of those metrics will appear on the new 360-foot 4K Oculus scoreboard, the largest scoreboard in professional sports."The big impact that people are going to see when they go to SoFi Stadium is the Oculus," Anil Jain, Google Cloud's managing director, media and entertainment, told CNBC in an interview on Thursday. Jain said some of the "conceptual ideas"   center around augmented reality as Google wants to help reimagine in-venue attractions as Covid-19 has "accelerated" virtual experiences. Augmented reality allows devices, such as phones and tablets, to overlay digital content on top of the real world that a user can see while looking at the screen.Jain hopes Google can provide exclusive video replays to fans and other supplementary experiences. "These are all things that come together in that future reinvention or re-imagination of the fan experience," he said.The $5 billion complex, developed by Rams owner Stan Kroenke, is set to open Sunday when the team hosts the Dallas Cowboys."We couldn't have picked a better partner to manage our technology needs," Skarpi Hedinsson, chief technology officer, SoFi Stadium and Hollywood Park, said in a statement. "Incorporating Google's solutions into critical areas of our business ensures we can usher in a new era of innovation in sports and entertainment, raising the bar on what the ultimate fan experience looks like globally."Google Cloud headquarters sits in Sunnyvale, California.Google CloudThe partnership will extend beyond NFL games played in the stadium. The complex will host massive sporting events starting with the 2022 Super Bowl, the college football national championship in 2023, and the Summer Olympics in 2028."Our goal is to continue to be an innovator in the space and partner with broadcasters, sports leagues and the broader ecosystem to help drive innovation but put it to the strengths that we're investing in – cloud computing, data analytics, artificial intelligence, machine learning and more," Jain said.

2020/08/17, In this articleORCLLarry Ellison, co-founder and executive chairman of Oracle Corp., speaks during the Oracle OpenWorld conference in San Francisco on Oct. 22, 2018.BloombergOracle, an enterprise software giant, is in talks to acquire social media company TikTok's U.S., Canadian, Australian and New Zealand assets, according to a person familiar with the matter.Oracle is working with a group of U.S. venture capital firms that already have a stake in TikTok, said the person, who asked not to be named because the negotiations are private. The Financial Times earlier reported on the talks and named General Atlantic and Sequoia Capital as two of the investors working with Oracle. Spokespeople for TikTok and Oracle declined to comment. Oracle's talks to acquire TikTok's operations in four countries are ongoing and have accelerated in recent days, the person said, and it and Microsoft are far ahead of any other companies that have expressed interest. While Microsoft has been working with the U.S. government to acquire TikTok's assets for more than a month, Oracle's co-founder and executive chairman Larry Ellison has expressed his support for President Donald Trump, whose administration has vowed to ban TikTok in the United States if Chinese owner ByteDance does not divest its U.S. operations by November. Ellison threw a campaign fundraising event for Trump earlier this year."There is credible evidence that leads me to believe that ByteDance ... might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the United States," Trump said in an executive order last week. Oracle doesn't have a consumer-facing social media or video business. In theory, Oracle could use customer data collected by TikTok to improve its marketing products, but spending tens of billions to acquire a consumer social media company would be a significant departure for the company. Oracle has struggled to find new avenues of growth as Amazon Web Services has dominated cloud computing, followed by Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud. In Oracle's fiscal fourth quarter, revenue declined 6% to $10.4 billion. Oracle has a history of being acquisitive but has slowed down on large deals in recent years.--CNBC's Jordan Novet contributed to this report.WATCH: China will seek clarity on 'vague' U.S. bans on WeChat, TikTok during trade talks: ExpertVIDEO3:0203:02China will seek clarity on 'vague' U.S. bans on WeChat, TikTok during trade talks: ExpertCapital Connection

2020/06/02, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., pauses while speaking during a Microsoft product event in New York, U.S., on Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2019.Mark Kauzlarich | Bloomberg | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only.)The coronavirus crisis accelerated corporate America's need for cloud infrastructure, positioning Microsoft's Azure cloud business to drive revenue and market value in the coming years, according to Wells Fargo. The Wall Street firm — which has an overweight rating on the Satya Nadella-led technology giant — believes Microsoft's market capitalization can top $2 trillion in the next few years due to strength in its cloud business. 

2020/10/07, LAS VEGAS, NV - APRIL 21: Twitch streamer and professional gamer Tyler "Ninja" Blevins.Ethan Miller | Getty ImagesAmazon-owned Twitch controlled more than 91% of the live video game streaming market during the third quarter — in terms of hours streamed — according to a report that Logitech-owned Streamlabs and analytics start-up Stream Hatchet released on Wednesday.Twitch lets people watch others play video games online, and it competes with similar products from Google and Facebook. Microsoft shut down its service, Mixer, in June and encouraged its users to adopt Facebook Gaming. But, most of the people who produced videos on Mixer appear to have gone with Twitch anyway. Twitch's share in the third quarter was higher than it's been since at least the first quarter of 2018.The unintended boost to Twitch from Microsoft means Amazon is only getting stronger in the game-streaming market. Amazon acquired Twitch for $842 million in 2014. Twitch makes money through advertising and users' subscriptions to streamers' channels. Amazon doesn't disclose total Twitch revenue.The report found:Content creators delivered 206 million hours of footage in the third quarter, a new record and up 96% from the year-ago quarter.People watched 4.7 billion hours of video through Twitch in the third quarter. That's down 8% from the second quarter when the coronavirus lockdowns kept more people home, providing additional time to watch game streams online.Facebook Gaming had a 3.4% share of hours streamed in the third quarter.Google's YouTube Gaming had a 6% share during the same time period.Mixer had a 14% share of hours streamed during the second quarter before it was shut down.Twitch's success can also be attributed to the popular gamers that use its service. Tyler "Ninja" Blevins announced his return to Twitch from Mixer in September. He signed an exclusive multiyear deal, according to the Hollywood Reporter, which did not provide financial details. Ninja, who often plays the popular game "Fortnite," has 16 million followers on Twitch, more than anyone else.WATCH: The rise of TwitchVIDEO12:5012:50The rise of TwitchGaming

2020/07/24, In this articleMSFTTSLAINTCSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., gestures as he speaks during a Bloomberg event on the opening day of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, on Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesTech investors are getting a dose of reality after a historic run.The Nasdaq, which gets about 40% of its value from just six technology stocks, just closed out its first two-week losing streak since the period ended May 1. The index dropped 1.3% in the past five trading days, led by a 16% plunge in Intel shares and a 5.6% decline in Tesla.It's only a minor pullback given the Nasdaq's strength, especially in the face of a global pandemic and surging unemployment. The Nasdaq is up 16% for the year and remains only 3.8% off its all-time high. It's more than doubled over the past five years, outperforming the S&P 500's 55% gain.Nasdaq vs. S&P 500CNBCBut the drop is notable because it was sparked by disappointing forecasts from Microsoft and Intel. Both companies provided better-than-expected results in the latest quarter but gave guidance for the current period that trailed analysts' estimates. Tesla, whose shares are still up about 240% this year, dropped for the week even after the electric carmaker reported a fourth straight quarterly profit.Driven in part by Tesla's massive rally, the Nasdaq recently reached its highest price-to-earnings ratio since 2005, according to FactSet. Meanwhile, initial jobless claims topped 1 million for an 18th straight week, and states are poised to stop paying out the $600 per week enhanced federal unemployment benefit at the end of July. Coronavirus cases in a number of U.S. states continue to reach daily records."The market has entered more of a casino mentality than ever before," said Brian Yacktman, chief investment officer of YCG Investments, which oversees close to $1 billion in assets. "Anytime momentum is disrupted, it makes people start to question what they're buying and what they actually own."Yacktman's investments include Microsoft, Facebook and Alphabet, and he hasn't been selling those stakes despite the rally, because "they're just so difficult to disrupt and have such tremendous pricing power and volume growth opportunities in the face of Covid," he said.He puts Tesla in a very different category and says that for stocks that are divorced from company fundamentals, "it's quite possible that gravity starts to kick back in."'Priced to perfection'The bigger question heading into next week is whether the specific issues raised by Microsoft and Intel spell trouble for other large tech companies. Facebook reports results on Wednesday, followed by Apple, Amazon and Google holding company Alphabet on Thursday.In Microsoft's forecast, the company cited weakness in spending from small and medium-sized businesses and a slowdown in bookings at LinkedIn. Intel said its next-generation processors would come out later than expected.     Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist at Prudential Financial, told CNBC on Friday that tech stocks have been "priced to perfection" ahead of this reporting season."The earnings next week are going to be very important to see whether or not the market continues to punish them," Krosby said.WATCH: Tech has become the safety tradeVIDEO3:2303:23Tech has become the safety trade: Chief market strategistPower Lunch

2020/07/24, In this articleMSFTVIDEO3:2303:23Microsoft falls on downgrade despite earnings beat. What's next for softwareTrading NationThe market's mixed reaction to Microsoft's earnings report has called software's rally into question.The tech giant beat Wall Street's expectations on the top and bottom lines in its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings report on Wednesday, but softer-than-expected revenue guidance weighed on the stock, which has climbed nearly 50% since the market's March lows.Oppenheimer on Thursday  downgraded Microsoft to market perform from outperform in response to the report, citing "materially" slower growth in its cloud segment, Azure, despite the success of Microsoft's consumer-facing products.Microsoft shares closed more than 4% lower on Thursday at $202.54."Part of Microsoft's issue has been that it has been very strong," Gina Sanchez, founder and CEO of Chantico Global, told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Thursday."Its outlook was already strong going into the pandemic and the pandemic even boosted demand for its products even more," she said. "The question that remains is does that boost mean that they will not get demand later? Has it just pushed forward demand that was already there, or has it created new demand?"For Sanchez, the answer was likely the latter."We think that the pandemic has actually created new demand," she said. "So, we're going to disagree on this, and we think that the outlook is still strong. But ... if you look at the price action, it has been very strong, and so, seeing a blow-off in Microsoft isn't that surprising."Bill Baruch, president and founder of Blue Line Capital and Blue Line Futures, agreed from a technical perspective."When something rallies like this, you have to be prepared for it to cool off," he said in the same "Trading Nation" interview. "Be patient. Know your buying spots."Pointing to a chart of the iShares Expanded Tech-Software Sector ETF (IGV), Baruch said the uptrend was very much intact.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwards"There's a nice channel. And that support trend line — that's where I'd be looking to be a buyer, [$]285," he said. "Volatility in general here surrounding earnings is nothing new. We saw that at the end of April with a lot of the tech behemoths reporting. Over this week and next week, I think the volatility's going to continue. So, again, what you want to do is know your spots."The IGV closed down 2% at $288.14 on Thursday. It would have to fall a little over 1% to reach Baruch's $285 target."That's where I'd look to be a buyer," he said. "I expect the trend to stay intact, but if it starts breaking down through that trend line, you want to be more cautious and manage your risk."When it came to risk, Sanchez had a few more words of advice: "Understand what you're buying.""In the case of Facebook or Apple or Microsoft, those are all driven by very different things," she said. "This pandemic has actually reminded us that individual stocks have individual stories. I think that you want to buy into technologies that will help make businesses more resilient because that is front of mind right now and that is an investment that will pay itself back ... down the road. I don't necessarily put Facebook in that category."Disclaimer

2020/06/24, In this articleMSFTAhmed Mazhari, President, Microsoft AsiaSource: MicrosoftIn an environment where firms big and small have suffered tremendous disruption due to the coronavirus pandemic, Microsoft wants to enable its clients to stay in business and build long-term resilience, the company's Asia president told CNBC. One of the hardest challenges at the moment is the fragile balance between lives and livelihoods as governments are forced to decide between restarting their economies, or keeping them in lockdown to contain the virus, Ahmed Mazhari said. Mazhari recently completed his first 100 days at the helm of Microsoft's Asia business, after replacing Ralph Haupter in February. "The times are challenging for humankind, but the last 100 days have been lots of learning, lots of anxious moments with our customers, with our partners, with governments," he said in a recent exclusive interview with CNBC. "Our business priority is to ensure that we help people, in the long term, become more resilient in their businesses and institutions," Mazhari added. "In the short term, enabling them to keep business running." Cloud performanceMicrosoft said during its last earnings release in late April that the initial impact of Covid-19 on the business was mixed. Cloud computing-based products — such as Teams and Azure — saw increased usage as more organizations shifted to remote work. But "there was a slowdown in transactional licensing, particularly in small and medium businesses, and a reduction in advertising spend in LinkedIn," the company said. Mazhari explained there were two aspects where Microsoft saw an acceleration in its cloud business. "The one is just consumption as a consequence of the fact that there's more ... telecommuting happening, (a) lot more people on the internet, lot more people accessing corporate networks," he said. The other aspect was that institutions and corporations realized they were not ready for remote work when the pandemic forced countries to step up restrictions and require nonessential employees to work from home. "Cloud plays a huge role in enabling virtualization of your workforce, virtualization of your technology and consequently your workforce," Mazhari added. Cloud computing in recent years has grown into a larger part of Microsoft's business model and its Azure platform remains one of the dominant players in the market. Asia focus Microsoft said that for fiscal year 2021, which begins in July, its Asia business is focused on working with governments and communities to use digital technology and data analytics to respond to the coronavirus crisis and accelerate the recovery process.The company added it plans to help its customers achieve business continuity in areas like telemedicine, online learning, and day-to-day operations as people continue to work remotely in what some have said is a fundamental social shift that has emerged from the pandemic. Cybersecurity and data privacy remain another area of focus for Microsoft, according to the tech giant. In March senior technology executives surveyed by CNBC said that cybersecurity risks increased as a majority of their employees worked from home. When asked about his outlook, and if there was any restructuring or potential job cuts on the horizon, Mazhari said the Asia business "continues to progress and we make progress in helping.""At this stage, our primary focus is to ensure we can help our customers, our partners and governments come out stronger and help reimagine a future that is driven by inclusive growth and better health," he said.The virus was first reported in China in late December and has since spread around the world, infecting more than 9.1 million people and killing over 470,000. 

2020/05/15, In this articleMSFTThe Surface Book 3.Jordan Novet | CNBCMicrosoft has barely changed the design of its Surface convertible tablet since introducing it in 2012.Now the company is employing a similar strategy with the Surface Book, a laptop whose display you can lift off and use as a tablet. This month, the company is bringing out updated versions of the Surface Book, available with 13.5-inch and 15-inch displays, and they look just like the models that came out in 2017 — and the original one that debuted in 2015.Microsoft could stand to get more experimental with this product. The company continues to ship fewer PCs than Dell, HP and Lenovo, and the Surface Book doesn't have the brand recognition that the Surface Pro tablet does. Sales of Microsoft devices are up less than 1% year over year in the three most recent quarters, according to the company's most recent earnings statement. Many other parts of the company's business have been growing faster.But for now, Microsoft is opting to refine a good laptop, rather than rethink it.Can you tell which one is the Surface Book 2 and which one is the Surface Book 3?Jordan Novet | CNBCThe big changes Microsoft delivered in the Surface Book 3 are all inside. Microsoft is offering as much as 32GB of memory for the first time, longer battery life than in any prior Surface and the fastest solid-state storage drive it has ever stuck in a computer. Microsoft added powerful Intel Core chips inside, along with graphics cards using Nvidia's beefed-up technology.The Surface Book 2 was already fast when I tested it in 2017. This time around, Microsoft sent me a 15-inch model of the Surface Book 3 featuring 32GB of RAM, 512GB of storage and a Core i7-1065G7 chip. A model with these specs would cost about $2,800, and it's clearly faster for tasks such as browsing the web, working on spreadsheets, playing games and watching videos.What's goodHere's pretty much all the good news: Performance is excellent. The computer stays quiet and cool to the touch while handling workloads that can challenge lesser machines.Also, it takes three seconds to detach the display, versus about four seconds on the Surface Book 2. That's nice if you frequently pull off the display to write or doodle with a stylus, or just read in a more comfortable position.Web browsing can be more comfortable in tablet mode.Jordan Novet | CNBCIf you liked the prior Surface Books, there's some more good news.The case is still made out of the magnesium that's smooth like a river rock. The keyboard remains pleasant to type on. The display is just as bright and clear as before. The 1080p front and back cameras are the same, the weight is the same and the ports are the same as earlier versions.What's badIf you're into showing off your new purchases, then you probably won't appreciate that the Surface Book 3 looks and feels almost exactly the same as the products it's replacing. There's something to be said for an approach like Apple takes with the iPhone, where it updates the internals regularly, but also rolls out visually obvious new designs every couple of revisions, so people will always know who's carrying the latest model.The Surface Book could use a little design refresh. The bezels around the display look a bit dated now, for example, as other Windows laptops from makers such as Dell have nearly eliminated screen borders.I typically got around six and a half hours' worth of battery life on the Surface Book 3. That's disappointing because I got almost seven and a half hours on the previous model and because Microsoft touted battery gains with this update.Microsoft rearranged the keys on the function row of the keyboard. Directly to the right of the escape key are the keyboard backlight and mute buttons, rather than the keys to lower and raise the screen brightness. If you want to upgrade to this model from an older version, you'll need some time to acclimate to the change.New nubs on the F4 and F8 keys can help you quickly raise the volume or take a screenshot.Jordan Novet | CNBCYou don't get all the software features out of the box that you did on the first and second Surface Books. Microsoft ships the Surface Book 3 with Windows 10 Home, not Windows 10 Pro, which includes features such as BitLocker encryption and Hyper-V for running virtual machines. An upgrade to Windows 10 Pro costs an extra $99.As was the case with older Surface Books, this one isn't especially accommodating when it comes to hardware upgrades. A few months ago, Microsoft showed off refinements to the Surface Laptop that make it easier to change out the device's storage. The company made no such changes to the Surface Book.Finally, the price for a Surface Book 3 can be high if you want a more powerful configuration. If you don't feel attached to the Surface Book's design, you might be happy with something less versatile. A Dell XPS 15 or Lenovo ThinkPad X1 Extreme with similar specs to the Surface I got would cost less than $2,500.Iterative is fine, but not excitingDon't get me wrong. The Surface Book 3 isn't a bad PC. If you need a new PC, you could do worse.It's just iterative, and no longer feels fresh. It's not a major leap forward for Microsoft's most powerful PC. When Microsoft redesigns the Surface Book and makes this otherwise very good laptop look modern again, then it'll be easier to justify the splurge.WATCH: Microsoft launches several new products to take on AppleVIDEO1:4101:41Microsoft launches several new products to take on AppleNews Videos

2020/06/22, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks during the Future Decoded Tech Summit in Bengaluru, India, on Feb. 25, 2020.Samyukta Lakshmi | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft on Monday said it's acquiring CyberX, a cybersecurity start-up focused on internet-connected industrial equipment. Terms of the deal weren't disclosed, although a May report from Israeli news outlet Globes said Microsoft was in talks to pay $165 million for the startup.Microsoft offers security products across several categories, including antivirus software and a service for securing the use of cloud applications. In recent years the company has become more interested in managing systems in the so-called internet of things, or IoT; last year it bought Express Logic, a company that makes an operating system for connected devices.With the acquisition of CyberX, Microsoft will gain additional technology for monitoring corporate hardware like alarms, cameras, phones and industrial control systems for security vulnerabilities."CyberX will complement the existing Azure IoT security capabilities, and extends to existing devices including those used in industrial IoT, operational technology and infrastructure scenarios," Microsoft corporate vice presidents Michal Braverman-Blumenstyk and Sam George wrote in a blog post."With CyberX, customers can discover their existing IoT assets, and both manage and improve the security posture of those devices. With CyberX, customers can see a digital map of thousands of devices across a factory floor or within a building and gather information about their asset profile and vulnerabilities."Microsoft expects to integrate CyberX with existing technology, including the cloud-based Azure Sentinel service the company introduced last year for battling security threats, Braverman-Blumenstyk and George wrote.CyberX was founded in 2013 and is based in Waltham, Massachusetts, with more than 150 employees, according to LinkedIn data. The start-up has raised $47 million, according to Crunchbase. Investors include Qualcomm Ventures and Norwest Venture Partners. Customers listed on the start-up's website include Deutsche Telekom, SGN and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries.In 2018 Microsoft announced a commitment to spend $5 billion on the internet of things over four years.WATCH: Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusVIDEO9:4709:47Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusSquawk Box

2020/06/12, Sony unveiled its highly-anticipated PlayStation 5 (PS5) console Thursday. It will compete directly against Microsoft's upcoming Xbox Series X when both game consoles launch later this year.Sony and Microsoft have been competing in the game console market since Microsoft entered the scene in 2001 — long after the first PlayStation was introduced in 1994. The last major release from both companies came in 2013, with the launch of the PS4 and the Xbox One. While both consoles have been updated with some improvements since then, this is the next generational step for both companies. Sometime before the holidays, the new Xbox Series X and the PS5 will launch. And, thanks to Sony's presentation on Thursday evening — which finally showed us what the PS5 looks like and several games — we're starting to learn a lot more about what we can expect.Here's what we know so far about Sony's PS5 and Microsoft's Xbox Series X.Specs and designMicrosoft's next-generation Xbox Series X console.MicrosoftMicrosoft says its Xbox Series X will be four times as powerful as its predecessor, the Xbox One X, supporting 8K resolution and a frame rate of 120 frames per second (FPS) — though you'll only be able to take advantage of this higher quality video if you have an 8K-ready TV, and they don't come cheap. The PS5 will also have 8K capability and can run 4K graphics at 120 FPS. This means sharper, smoother graphics.The Xbox Series X looks sort of like a black computer tower. It's simple. The PS5 is the opposite. Sony opted for a more futuristic style, with two white wings on either side of a black block wedged in the middle of the console.PlayStation 5SonyBoth consoles come with solid-state drives (SSDs) which will allow you to boot up games much quicker. Sony said it will release a version of the PS5 called the "Digital Edition" for people who prefer to download games instead of buying discs. You'll just want to make sure you have a fast internet connection if you pick this model, since games are going to be really large and will take a long time to download (hours or days) on a slow connection.ControllersThe Xbox Elite Wireless Controller Series 2 is unveiled during the Microsoft Corp. Xbox event ahead of the E3 Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles, California, U.S., on Sunday, June 9, 2019.Patrick T. Fallon | Bloomberg via Getty ImagesIt might seem minor, but gamers really care about controllers. After all, the controller is how you're interacting with games for, sometimes, hundreds and hundreds of hours. So far, both look pretty impressive.Microsoft's Xbox Elite Controller: Series 2, which has already been released, comes with adjustable-tension thumbsticks and wrap-around rubberized grips. It'll also have a built-in rechargeable battery with up to 40 hours of battery life.Sony's DualSense wireless controller for the PlayStation 5.SonySony, meanwhile, has added haptic feedback to its DualSense controller for the PS5. It says you'll be able to feel virtual things physically. In theory, in-game sensations should feel more realistic to the player than simple vibrations, but we don't know how well it works yet.GamesMarvel's "Spider-Man: Miles Morales," a PlayStation 5 exclusive.SonyExclusive launch titles — the games available that are exclusive to either the PS5 or Xbox Series X — can be important. They'll help drive sales, since people will want to buy a new console to play the latest games.Sony revealed a compelling lineup on Thursday with various PS5 exclusives, including big titles like "Spider-Man: Miles Morales" and "Horizon Forbidden West."Here's a list of other games that are coming exclusively to the PS5:"Gran Turismo 7""Ratchet and Clank: Rift Apart""Demon's Souls""Returnal""Sackboy: A Big Adventure" "Astro's Playroom""Destruction All Stars""Halo Infinite," "The Medium" and "Scorn" will launch as exclusives for the Xbox Series X. Both consoles will support backward compatibility for games made for their predecessors. That means you'll still be able to play an Xbox One game on the Xbox Series X or a PlayStation 4 game on the PS5.CloudMicrosoft Project xCloud will let people stream games to mobile devices, too.MicrosoftThe cloud is about to play a much more prominent role in gaming, too. Google debuted a streaming game service of its own called Stadia last year, but it's so far had a mixed reception. Microsoft's Project xCloud, currently in beta, promises to let gamers play their games anywhere on phones, computers and tablets, even if they aren't near their Xbox. Right now, gamers can stream from an Xbox to a computer, but only over the home Wi-Fi network. xCloud should make that experience much more seamless, allowing gamers to pick up where they left off wherever they are.Sony hasn't talked a whole lot about its plans, but it has a partnership with Microsoft in which it will use Microsoft's Azure cloud to offer game streaming. It currently has a subscription service called PlayStation Now which allows players to play games on their PS4 or PC, so we expect that to expand in some form with the launch of the PS5.Pricing and release dates still unknownGame enthusiasts and industry personnel walk between the Microsoft Xbox and Sony PlayStation exhibits at the E3 trade show on June 16, 2015 in Los Angeles, California.Christian Petersen | Getty ImagesMicrosoft and Sony have spoken about the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. Microsoft said in April that the outbreak wouldn't change the timing of its next-gen console's release, though it may slow down some game production. Sony said there have been no "major problems" in its game development pipeline.We still don't know when the PS5 or the Xbox Series X will launch, though.  Sony and Microsoft have just said this year. And we don't know how much they'll cost.New consoles typically cost hundreds of dollars at launch, though. The PS4 was $399.99 when it launched and the Xbox One was priced at $499. So, ballpark it around $400 - $600 plus the cost of new games, which typically run around $50 - $60 a pop.

2020/08/05, VIDEO9:0209:02Microsoft is seeking transfer of TikTok's 15 million lines of code: Faber ReportSquawk on the StreetMicrosoft plans to finish its acquisition talks with TikTok within the next three weeks, ahead of the Sept. 15 deadline,  CNBC's David Faber reported Wednesday. The deal could be worth up to $30 billion.If the deal goes through, Microsoft has already agreed with the U.S. government to bring TikTok's code from China to the U.S. within one year. Faber also reported that the two sides haven't landed on a price for TikTok yet, but it could be between $10 billion and $30 billion. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin is "deeply involved" in process, according to Faber. President Donald Trump has said that the U.S. Treasury should get a cut of the acquisition, but it's unclear how that would work or if it's even legal.Very few American companies have the bandwidth to transfer large amounts of data over to its own systems within a year, let alone afford the billions TikTok will cost. Microsoft checks both those boxes though. Microsoft could likely transfer TikTok's software code, which could be up to 15 million lines of artificial intelligence, helping cement its position as the leading contender to acquire the company, Faber reported.Microsoft confirmed in a blog post Sunday it has held talks with TikTok's China-based parent company ByteDance to buy its business in the U.S., Canada, Australia and New Zealand. It's currently the only apparent, leading bidder. TikTok has been under fire from the Trump administration, which has accused the Chinese-owned app of collecting data on Americans and sending it to the Chinese government. (TikTok has repeatedly denied this.) President Donald Trump has stressed that he will ban the app if ByteDance doesn't sell the widely-popular unit to an American company by September 15. Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2020/07/17, Patrick Mahomes #15 of the Kansas City Chiefs looks to pass against the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl LIV at Hard Rock Stadium on February 02, 2020 in Miami, Florida.Focus On Sport | Getty ImagesThe National Football League is using a variety of innovative safety concepts from its brand partnerships as the league continues to plan for its 2020 regular-season.Ideas around a probable Covid-19 impacted season include bottle cap inserts preprinted with players uniform numbers to distinguish personal Gatorade bottles, Visa's contact-less transaction technology, and Verizon's 5G capabilities for fan engagement both in stadiums and viewers at home. The NFL brings in more than $1 billion in sponsorship revenue with some of the more prominent brands like Procter and Gamble, Lowes, Bose and Microsoft, all of which are assisting the NFL with its coronavirus response for the upcoming season.Though the NFL hasn't made a league-wide decision on allowing spectators at games, Renie Anderson, chief revenue officer and executive vice president of NFL Partnerships, suggested the league plans to operate as close to normal as possible."There is no handbook on how to move forward in a global pandemic," Anderson said in an interview with CNBC.But while the NFL's lawyers are finalizing negotiations around economics and health and safety protocols for operating during the pandemic with the league's players union, brands have already submitted their ideas around lowering the risk of the coronavirus' spread and new ways to entertain fans away from the stands.Oakley designed NFL helmet with a face shield to protect players from spreading germs.Source: NFLProtection on the fieldConcepts around the upcoming season include face shields designed by Oakley. The clear face guards are meant to replicate regular face masks and protect players around the mouth and nose area to reduce the risk of contamination during play.Oakley consulted with doctors from the National Football League Players Association (NFLPA), and Anderson said players on the west coast have already tested the equipment. She did not say how many players tested the shields or provide any feedback from those players as the NFL's "engineering group" monitored the operation.Though the shields received a bit of criticism, the NFL believes the guards will lower risks of potential spreading of germs. The league also wants to mandate that players wear face shields when it releases its final version of health and safety protocols for the season, but the NFLPA will have to approve that first."We're hoping that [players] adopt the technology, but clearly, it's optional," Anderson said.The NFL says Oakley, which pays the league roughly $75 million per year and makes its visors, will have enough shields to distribute them to all 32 teams before the start of the season.The NFL will also have custom masks made by New Era for non-active players and other team personnel on the sidelines of the field.Microsoft's fan engagementEarlier this year, Denmark's Aarhus Gymnastikforening (AGF) soccer league created the world's "first virtual grandstand" with roughly 10,000 fans watching an AGF match via a Zoom video broadcast, something the National Basketball Association hopes to replicate with its Walt Disney "bubble" campus in Orlando this month.The NFL plans to take a different approach using its partnership with Microsoft and the company's Teams video chat and collaboration app.Anderson said the NFL and Microsoft are "working on different concepts" to have fans watch games through the Teams platform. Anderson didn't say if fans will need to pay a fee to participate in the video calls, and Microsoft didn't respond when asked to elaborate on its upcoming plans to incorporate Teams.But Anderson said "the draft is a great example" of how Microsoft would work with the league, mentioning the video fan wall around commissioner Rodger Goodell during April's broadcast of the draft.Zoom still seems to be the preferred choice for video conference calls. But Microsoft will have its chance in the spotlight to help both the NBA and NFL develop ideas around keeping fans engaged and future revenue streams with day-of-game revenue like ticketing, concessions and parking temporarily halted.The NFL hasn't made a uniform decision on allowing spectators, but Anderson said the league would defer "to all the states and their guidelines and rules for fans attending games. "That will be a decision made by those states, and we'll be working closely with our clubs," she said.The Philadelphia Eagles will most likely see an empty Lincoln Financial Field after city officials banned large events until 2021. Also, Robert Kraft's New England Patriots have already informed fans games won't be at full capacity this season. And with Covid-19 cases increasing, it's likely more NFL clubs will need to prepare for life without fans as every other sport was required to adjust.Verizon's 5G effortsVerizon Communications Inc. 5G wireless signage is displayed at the company's booth during the Mobile World Congress Americas in Los Angeles, California, U.S., on Wednesday, Sept. 12, 2018.Patrick T. Fallon | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesVirtual reality and augmented reality experiences will continue to accelerate, with leagues needing to entice both in-person and at-home fans. But much will depend on wireless speed, and it's here the NFL will lean on Verizon, which pays the league roughly $300 million a year to hold the rights as its official telecommunications partner.At February's Super Bowl LIV in Miami, the company tested its 5G wireless technology giving fans inside Hard Rock Stadium exclusive live-streaming camera views of the Kansas City Chiefs' victory over the San Francisco 49ers.  According to CNN, Verizon invested more roughly $80 million to install cell sites around Miami during the Super Bowl to enhance its 5G networks. And the NFL wants to have 5G infrastructure installed in at least 24 of its stadiums this season.Anderson said the league is "trying to figure out the best solution that could bring fans in through Verizon and some of their 5G experiences."Anderson also mentioned that the NFL is engaged "lots of discussions" with tech firms for temperature screening devices. The Baltimore Ravens have already purchased devices from a company called Seek Thermal to use around its training facility.VIDEO3:2003:20Washington's NFL team announces it will change name for 2020 seasonNews Videos

2020/11/10, VIDEO1:2001:20News Update – Pre-MarketsNews BriefingCheck out the companies making headlines before the bell:DR Horton – The homebuilder reported quarterly profit of $2.24 per share, beating the consensus estimate of $1.76, with revenue also above forecasts on an increase in closed sales and net orders. DR Horton also raised its dividend and issued an upbeat 2021 outlook. The shares rose 3% in premarket trading as of 7:29 a.m. ET.CyberArk Software – The cybersecurity company reported adjusted quarterly earnings of 31 cents per share, 2 cents above estimates, although revenue fell short of Wall Street forecasts. CyberArk also gave a current quarter revenue forecast that falls below consensus estimates. The shares lost 6% in premarket trading as of 7:29 a.m. ET.Advance Auto Parts – The auto parts retailer beat estimates by 15 cents with adjusted quarterly earnings of $2.81 per share, with revenue beating estimates as well. The results were helped by an ongoing increase in do-it-yourself repairs prompted by the pandemic. The shares lost 2% in premarket trading as of 7:29 a.m. ET.Hain Celestial – The organic-products maker came in 7 cents ahead of Street forecasts with adjusted quarterly profit of 27 cents per share, with revenue also beating forecasts. Hain is expecting continued profit margin and earnings expansion in fiscal 2021, but is not giving specific financial guidance.Beyond Meat – Beyond Meat shares are under pressure, after the plant-based burger maker reported an unexpected loss and lower-than-expected sales. Sales growth was the slowest since Beyond Meat's initial public offering in May 2019. The shares dropped 22% in premarket trading as of 7:29 a.m. ET.Lowe's – Lowe's said it is not in talks to buy industrial products distributor HD Supply, pushing back on a Bloomberg report that said the two sides were in talks. HD Supply shares had surged after Monday's closing bell following that report.Novavax – Novavax reported an unexpected loss for its latest quarter, with the drug maker's revenue also missing analyst forecasts. The shares lost 4% in premarket trading as of 7:29 a.m. ET.Simon Property Group – Simon reported adjusted quarterly profit of 48 cents per share, well below 90 cent consensus estimate, with the mall operator's revenue also falling short of Wall Street forecasts. Simon's results were impacted by retail tenants who paid lower rents amid the pandemic or missed payments altogether. The shares fell 3% in premarket trading as of 7:29 a.m. ET.Microsoft – Microsoft unveiled two new Xbox gaming console models, as the pandemic drives a boom in online gaming. The Xbox Series X will sell for $499.99 while the Series S will cost $299.99.NextEra Energy – The alternative energy producer has offered $15 billion in stock to acquire Kansas City-based utility Evergy, according to people familiar with the matter who spoke to Reuters. NextEra – the world's biggest solar and wind energy producer – was rebuffed and it is unclear whether it will make a new approach to Evergy.Norwegian Cruise Line Holding – Norwegian reported a quarterly loss of $2.35 per share, wider than the loss of $2.25 expected by analysts, while revenue was below estimates as well. Norwegian did say that demand for future cruises remains, especially for the second half of 2021. The shares gained 2% in premarket trading as of 7:29 a.m. ET.Tesla – Tesla will reimburse some Model X and Model S owners to cover issues with a memory device that caused touchscreen blackouts, according to customer letters seen by CNBC. The automaker will also expand its warranty to include that issue.Occidental Petroleum – Occidental Petroleum reported a larger than expected third quarter loss, hit by a plunge in crude oil prices.

2020/06/12, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella (L) and Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos visit before a meeting of the White House American Technology Council in the State Dining Room of the White House June 19, 2017 in Washington, DC.Chip Somodevilla | Getty ImagesNow that Amazon and Microsoft have put the future use by police of facial recognition in the hands of lawmakers, activists want to keep the technology away from law enforcement permanently.It's an issue that had previously been debated among artificial intelligence experts and policy wonks. But with Amazon, Microsoft and IBM, to varying degrees, backing away this week from their promoted use of facial recognition, they've raised awareness of the topic and placed it squarely in the discussion of police reform."The fact that companies like Microsoft and Amazon are distancing themselves from police use of facial recognition is a sign of the growing power of the movement," said Evan Greer, deputy director of Fight for the Future, a nonprofit focused on technology and human rights. "The tectonic plates are shifting on this issue."But Fight for the Future and its affiliates see this as just a start. Amazon said Wednesday it is putting a one-year moratorium on sales to law enforcement to "give Congress enough time to implement appropriate rules." Microsoft followed on Thursday by saying that it won't sell to police until a national law is in place, "grounded in human rights," that governs its use. IBM did not specifically say it would ban police use of its facial recognition technology.Greer's group says those bans need to be permanent. Fight for the Future has a website, Ban Facial Recognition, where 40 participating organizations, including MoveOn.org and Greenpeace, have agreed to support "legislation that bans the government from using this dangerous technology to spy on the American public." They say the technology is oppressive, ripe for abuse and prone to misidentifying people.That sentiment is shared by at least some inside Amazon. A group that goes by "Amazonians: We Won't Build It" on Twitter, responded to the company's statement on Thursday, tweeting that ending the sale of Rekognition to law enforcement is a "demand shared by employees in Amazon's Black Employee Network, the @ACLU, community groups, researchers, and others."And Timnit Gebru, a research scientist at Google in the ethical AI team, told The New York Times this week that law enforcement can't be trusted with facial recognition technology. She cited the Baltimore police's use of the technology in the protests following the 2015 killing of Freddie Gray "to identify protesters by linking images to social media profiles.""I'm a black woman living in the U.S. who has dealt with serious consequences of racism," Gebru told the Times. "Facial recognition is being used against the black community." A debate about the futureThe argument is more about the future than the present, as facial recognition has yet to gain significant traction in law enforcement. Microsoft says it hasn't sold at all into that market, and Amazon previously listed only one law enforcement customer — The Washington County Sheriff Office — on the website for its Rekognition software. Still, the prospect of police departments having access to sophisticated technology that allows them to find and track people, with few guardrails, has become untenable after the death of George Floyd at the hands of police and the nationwide protests that followed. Tech companies, with their trillion-dollar market caps, have come under increased pressure from employees, investors and lawmakers to show they're committed to addressing problems of systemic racism. The House Committee on Oversight and Reform has held hearings on the use of facial recognition technology but hasn't introduced a bill regulating it. Earlier this year, there was bipartisan support for some level of regulation, with Committee Chairwoman Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y., and ranking member Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, expressing concern about the use of facial recognition technology without accountability.Crowds gather for a Black Lives Matter rally in Washington Square Park on June 6, 2020 in New York.Noam Galai | Getty Images"It is an issue that cuts across the political spectrum," said Greer.One reason that Greer and her allies support an outright ban is that any legislation that regulates facial recognition for police use will likely be influenced by Microsoft and Amazon and their massive lobbying arms in Washington, D.C."This seems consistent with the playbook," Greer said. "They say they're open to regulation or calls for regulation because they know their lawyers will help craft it and make sure it's friendly to their business model."To keep their influence at bay, "we will need robust legislation that brings the hammer down and places an outright ban on facial recognition for surveillance purposes in the U.S.," Greer said.Representatives from Amazon and Microsoft didn't respond to requests for comment.WATCH: Amazon bans use of its facial recognition technology by police for one yearVIDEO2:1602:16Amazon bans use of its facial recognition technology by police for one yearNews Videos

2020/06/22, In this articleMSFTWORKVIDEO2:3202:32Trading Nation: Slack slides after Goldman Sachs says sellTrading NationInvestors like the messengers, not shooting them. It's just a question of which one they like more.The rivalry between Slack and Microsoft Teams is heating up, with Goldman Sachs downgrading Slack's stock on Friday to sell because of what it expects to be an "enduring battle" for customers between the two messaging apps."While we continue to view Slack as a best-in-class team messaging offering that is favored by the technical community, we expect MSFT Teams to continue to try and leverage its packaging within Ofﬁce 365 to drive increased adoption, thus creating the potential for a more competitive environment," analysts wrote.Wall Street traders are also taking sides. Nancy Tengler, chief investment officer at Laffer Tengler Investments, was in Goldman's camp."It's the right call," Tengler told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Friday, also citing The Wall Street Journal's article about cloud payments taking a hit as a result of the coronavirus-driven economic slowdown."Slack has 25% of their revenue exposure in the small business space," the likeliest group to forgo payments, Tengler said."Yes, the technology is better than Microsoft, but [Microsoft's] 258 million [user] installed base and the fact that they're focused on growing this business has shown up in the recent numbers," she said. "In March and April, their growth was tenfold that of Slack's. Compare that to 2018, when Slack was at fourfold growth faster than Microsoft. We own Microsoft. We like it here. It's got a lot of levers to pull. So, I'd make that swap as an investor."Craig Johnson, senior technical research analyst at Piper Sandler, took the other side of the trade."I like it," he said of Slack in the same "Trading Nation" interview, pointing to its technical chart.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwards"The chart itself is making a big rounding bottom," Johnson said. "Yeah, it's pulled back here a little bit, but from our perspective, this is a pullback you want to buy."Johnson added that Slack's 114% rally from its March lows "doesn't concern" him when evaluating the stock."It's a long-term growth story and they are winning some large customers," he said. "Verizon and other companies like that are buying this service. So, it's a stock, for us, that we should be buying."Disclosure: Laffer Tengler Investments owns shares of Microsoft.Disclaimer

2020/07/07, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks during the Future Decoded Tech Summit in Bengaluru, India, on Feb. 25, 2020.Samyukta Lakshmi | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said on Tuesday it received court approval to stop cyberattacks that use concerns around the coronavirus to trick  customers into providing hackers with access to information.The announcement comes after the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said earlier this month that Americans have lost over $77 million because of coronavirus-related fraud, with people reporting over 62,000 incidents since the start of the year.Microsoft said that fraudsters have used phishing attacks in emails, trying to fool recipients by offering what appeared to be information on bonuses at a time when people were concerned about job cuts and a contracting economy. For instance, a victim received a fake email concerning a "Covid-19 bonus," Tom Burt, a corporate vice president at Microsoft, wrote in a blog post. After clicking on the link, the person would be asked to approve access to a web application, where hackers could gain access to information in the victims' Office 365 accounts, Burt wrote.Microsoft was able to take down certain domains that were associated with the attacks, thanks to a ruling from the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Burt wrote. Still,  people should be on the lookout for illegitimate messages and enable two-factor authentication on their email accounts, he wrote.Microsoft often talks about efforts to stop cybercriminals, including those affiliated with nation-states. The company said in April that the virus had only minimal impact on its own business in the first quarter.WATCH: Tech companies partner with WHO for a coronavirus hackathonVIDEO0:2800:28Tech companies partner with WHO for a coronavirus hackathonClosing Bell

2020/07/07, In this articleMSFTPeggy Johnson, executive vice president of business development at Microsoft, speaks during the Wall Street Journal D.Live global technology conference in Laguna Beach, Calif., on Oct. 17, 2017.Patrick T. Fallon | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft executive Peggy Johnson will join Magic Leap as CEO in August, the start-up announced Tuesday.Johnson joins the augmented reality start-up after leading Microsoft's M&A strategy and launching its venture fund as executive vice president of business development. She was hired by Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella in 2014 after a 24-year career at Qualcomm, where she worked in several roles, including running the internet services unit. At Microsoft, Johnson was a member of the company's senior leadership team and navigated Microsoft through major partnership deals and acquisitions, including its $26.2 billion purchase of LinkedIn in 2016.Magic Leap's announcement comes weeks after founder Rony Abovitz announced in May he would step down as CEO, saying "it became clear to us that a change in my role was a natural next step."Founded in 2011, Magic Leap was the subject of extensive hype in its early days, and managed to raise about $3 billion from Alphabet's Google and other investors. But the company's first product, released in 2018 for over $2,000, showed lowered ambitions since the company's early demonstrations and did not sell well. Magic Leap recently pivoted to focus on business scenarios. During the coronavirus pandemic, Magic Leap announced in April it would lay off staff as part of a structure overhaul. The New York Times reported that about 600 of its 1,900 workers were impacted.Johnson told the Times she was driven to take the job because she wanted to be a chief executive. Her last day at Microsoft will be Tuesday, the company said in a filing.Microsoft will look at internal and external candidates to replace Johnson, a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC, and in the meantime, finance chief Amy Hood will take on her direct reports.In an email to Microsoft executives Tuesday morning, Nadella wrote, "I want to thank Peggy for her leadership and partnership these past six years. Her ability to connect people, drive consensus, and forge relationships has taught me a lot. Through the years, she has been a clear role model for women at Microsoft and in technology, and I know she'll continue to inspire young women in STEM in her new role."-CNBC's Jordan Novet contributed to this report.WATCH: After almost a decade and billions in outside investment, Magic Leap's first product is finally available — here's what it's likeVIDEO4:5704:57CNBC reviews Magic Leap's first productTech

2020/08/20, TwentyBN founders (L-R): Ingo Bax (CTO), Roland Memisevic (CEO), Moritz Mueller-Freitag (COO).TwentyBNIn 2016, Roland Memisevic, Ingo Bax and Moritz Mueller-Freitag — the three entrepreneurs behind a start-up called TwentyBN — set out to create a platform that businesses could use to add a form of artificial intelligence to their products known as computer vision. Built off the back of research carried out at Toronto University and Mila (a Quebec AI Institute), TwentyBN's platform is relatively technical and complex. But at a fundamental level, it allowed companies to build computer vision features into their products so that machines can "see" and understand what's around them. The main use case has been with virtual assistants. The founders, who oversee a team of 30 employees spread across Toronto and Berlin, started out by licensing their platform to companies in automotive, health care, retail, and manufacturing. TwentyBN said a leading consumer device manufacturer, who cannot be named for contractual reasons, used its technology in one of their product lines."We thought the technology was sufficiently mature that you could give lots of Fortune 500 companies access to it and then they could make their products more interactive," Moritz Mueller-Freitag, co-founder and chief operations officer at TwentyBN, told CNBC. But TwentyBN, which stands for Twenty Billion Neurons, was mistaken."The non-tech companies that we worked with don't have the in-house talent and the resources to work with this platform in a self-service way," said Mueller-Freitag."We realized the market didn't understand the new kinds of applications you can build (with computer vision technology)," he said. "That's when we started searching for our own products."The pivotThe trio, who have raised $12.5 million from investors including Microsoft's venture arm, M-12, decided to create a fitness app after concluding that such software could benefit from a more visual experience. The decision was also inspired by the fact that they believe that not everyone wants to pay over $1,000 for clever fitness hardware developed by companies like Tonal, Mirror and Peloton.As the world went into lockdown, TwentyBN rolled out a fitness app on May 8 called Fitness Ally on Apple's App Store, making it instantly accessible to hundreds of millions of iPhone and iPad owners. The company ultimately hopes that Fitness Ally will end up being as popular as fitness apps like MyFitnessPal, Nike Training Club, and Strava.  The app contains a virtual fitness trainer called Allie who is there to guide the user through a series of workouts. The computer vision software within the app means Allie can "watch" the workout. Despite being little more than a virtual avatar, she'll correct poor form and pull you up for slacking if she doesn't think you're working hard enough. "We wanted to create a product experience that was fun and that could hold them accountable," said Mueller-Freitag, adding that it can really measure performance and how you improve over time.The app, due to be launched on Android at a later date, has been downloaded by thousands of people and two well-known tech companies have made Fitness Ally part of their employee benefits offering, but they can't be named as the deals haven't been officially announced.The app's biggest public win is arguably a distribution partnership with GymPass, which allows people to access more than 40,000 gyms and studios around the world with one GymPass membership.Through the partnership, Fitness Ally is offered to all of GymPass's members for free.Fitness Ally could face some very stiff competition from Apple soon.The iPhone-maker is working on a new app with the codename "Seymour." A person familiar with the plans told CNBC that Seymour will guide users through workouts via the iPhone and the Apple Watch. The app is being spearheaded by Jay Blahnik, a fitness instructor and author who joined Apple in 2013, the person added. In addition to the fitness app, TwentyBN is still licensing its platform to other companies but it's being much more selective, according to Mueller-Freitag. TwentyBN has also created datasets that AI researchers use. AI researchers at big tech firms including Apple, Amazon and Microsoft have used TwentyBN's datasets for publishing academic papers. TwentyBN charges a small fee for access to the datasets. 

2020/04/30, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, speaks with Herbert Diess, CEO of Volkswagen AG (not pictured), at a "fireside chat" to the media about a joint project between the two companies called the Volkswagen Automotive Cloud on February 27, 2019 in Berlin.Sean Gallup | Getty ImagesMicrosoft on Thursday said it will start accepting registrations for its first digital-only Build developer conference scheduled for May 19-21. Microsoft had originally planned to hold the event in Seattle but canceled in-person gatherings in March as coronavirus became more prevalent. More than 6,000 people registered to attend last year's Build conference in downtown Seattle. Microsoft is now providing more detail on its substitute for one of its marquee activities that brings together employees with outsiders.This year's event will be free, and it will be more focused on the core audience of software developers, rather than end users of products like Windows 10 or Office applications, or people interested in understanding bigger-picture corporate strategy. Last month Microsoft held a digital event for journalists to learn about new features in the Edge browser and other products. Build will see Microsoft delivering content for a larger audience.Executives will talk about artificial intelligence technologies, the Azure cloud, the Microsoft 365 family of products including the Office productivity bundle.Keynote presentations at this year's Build event will be shorter, and some of the discussion that normally takes place in person will happen on Twitter instead. Microsoft executives will be recording content ahead of time from their homes as they continue to shelter in place, although some content will be produced live to enable greater public interaction, the person said. Holding the event online will mean journalists won't have their usual press room available. Microsoft will provide a gathering place for journalists in the Teams communication app for this year's Build. Earlier this month Microsoft told partners that it had chosen to make all internal and external events into digital-first affairs through July 2021. At some point Microsoft will probably hold in-person conferences again, the person said.Other big technology companies like Apple, Facebook and Google have also canceled or gone online-only with major developer events they had been planning for this year as Covid-19 cases mounted. On Wednesday Salesforce called off its Dreamforce show for customers and partners.WATCH: Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusVIDEO9:4709:47Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusSquawk Box

2020/11/05, Hans Vestberg, chief executive officer of Verizon Communications Inc., gestures as he speaks during a keynote session at the 2019 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S., on Tuesday, Jan. 8, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2020/04/29, In this articleGSMSFTMicrosoft CEO Satya NadellaTobias Schwarz | AFP | Getty ImagesMicrosoft shares rose as much as 5% in extended trading on Wednesday after the company reported fiscal third-quarter sales growth of 15%, fueled by its cloud business.The company said in a statement that the coronavirus "had minimal net impact on the total company revenue" in the quarter and that "effects of COVID-19 may not be fully reflected in the financial results until future periods."Here's how the company did:Earnings: $1.40 per share, adjustedRevenue: $35.02 billionAnalysts polled by Refinitiv had expected $1.26 in adjusted earnings per share on $33.66 billion in revenue for the quarter, which ended on March 31. Net income rose 22% to $10.8 billion.The results, along with Alphabet's on Tuesday and Facebook's on Wednesday, show that the mega-cap tech companies have held up so far, at a time when unemployment broadly is skyrocketing and the economy is shrinking. Alphabet and Facebook both indicated that ad prices are stabilizing after a steep drop in March.Microsoft's revenue grew 15% from $30.57 billion on an annualized basis in the quarter, according to the statement.With respect to guidance, Microsoft expects $35.85 billion to $36.80 billion in fiscal fourth-quarter revenue, or $36.33 billion in the middle of the range. That implies 7.7% growth — which would be the slowest growth since the first quarter of 2017 — and the forecast is higher than the $36.42 billion Refinitiv consensus estimate. The company sees quarterly revenue declines search excluding traffic acquisition costs, Enterprise Services and its on-premises server business.The stock lost some of its gains after Chief Financial Officer Amy Hood issued the guidance on the company's Wednesday conference call with analysts.In the fiscal third quarter, the More Personal Computing segment, containing Bing, Windows, Surface and Xbox, delivered $11 billion in revenue. That's up 2.9% and above the $10.46 billion consensus among analysts surveyed by FactSet.Microsoft said in February that it didn't expect to meet the quarterly guidance it had provided for More Personal Computing. Hood had told analysts in January that the segment would generate revenue in the quarter of $10.75 billion to $11.15 billion.The Productivity and Business Processes unit, which includes Dynamics, LinkedIn and Office, recorded $11.74 billion in revenue, up 14.7% and higher than the FactSet analyst consensus of $11.53 billion.There were 39.6 million consumer subscribers to the Office 365 bundle of productivity apps, up about 16% from last year — the fastest growth since the third quarter of 2018. The Teams communication app now has over 75 million daily active users, up from over 44 million in mid-March, and there were over 200 million meeting participants in one day this month, CEO Satya Nadella told analysts on the conference call. Installed bases across the Office franchise grew in the quarter, and Microsoft picked up more revenue per user as commercial customers opted for the E5 package that includes additional security features, Hood said on the call.Microsoft's Intelligent Cloud segment, featuring Azure, GitHub and server products, including SQL Server and Windows Server, posted $12.28 billion in revenue, up 27% and more than the $11.79 billion consensus.The initial impact of Covid-19 on the business was mixed. Cloud products like Teams and Azure saw increased usage as "customers shifted to work and learn from home," Microsoft said. But on the downside, "In the final weeks of the quarter, there was a slowdown in transactional licensing, particularly in small and medium businesses, and a reduction in advertising spend in LinkedIn," the company said.As Microsoft had predicted, revenue from Surface devices and Windows licenses from device makers saw gains as people rushed to work and learn from home. That was somewhat offset, though, by supply chain constraints in China that got better at the end of the quarter. Infrastructure spending, to support Azure and other offerings, was delayed in the quarter because of supply chain constraints, Microsoft said. Delays in consulting projects impacted Enterprise Services revenue, Hood said on the call."I don't think it came as a surprise that sales were up but 15% in the quarter" though it's "pretty significant, given the market environment," said Carter Henderson, portfolio specialist and director of institutional development at Fort Pitt Capital Group, which counts Microsoft as its top holding. "I think it's really amazing to see all the segments of the overall business can perform in really any environment."Henderson said the firm itself has relied on Teams in recent weeks following shelter-in-place orders across the U.S. He said he expects Azure to remain in strong demand even after people return to work and take more share from market leader Amazon Web Services."If you step back and ask yourself, say, two years from now, is there going be more being done in the public cloud or hybrid cloud or less? The answer is more," Nadella said on Wednesday's call.Earlier this month, IDC estimated that PC shipments fell about 10% in the quarter because of reduced supply from China, where the coronavirus had its first major outbreak. Microsoft also ended support for Windows 7 in the period.Microsoft shares are up 12% for the year, while the S&P 500 is down almost 9%. Based on Microsoft's after-hours price, the stock is less than 4% below its record high from February.WATCH: Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusVIDEO9:4709:47Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusSquawk Box

2020/05/06, VIDEO1:4101:41Microsoft launches several new products to take on AppleNews VideosMicrosoft unveiled several new products on Wednesday, including a new Surface Book 3 laptop and an affordable Surface Go 2 tablet.It's a tough time to announce new products. Like Apple, which recently released a new iPhone, new iPads Pro and new MacBook Pro and MacBook Air computers, Microsoft wasn't able to hold a splashy press event to talk about its new gadgets. And, with stores closed around the country, people can't really see them in person before making a decision.But, lots of people are using computers more than ever right now. The company said earlier this week that Windows 10 monthly usage is up 75% from the same time last year.Here's what Microsoft announced.Surface Go 2Surface Go 2 (keyboard, mouse and pencil are not included.)MicrosoftThe Surface Go 2 follows Microsoft's original Surface Go. It's a miniature and lower-powered version of Microsoft's far more expensive Surface Pro tablets. It starts at $399 and includes a more powerful processor than the first version (Microsoft says it's 64% faster) and a slightly larger 10.5-inch screen.It also has a sharp 5-megapixel front-facing camera that may be useful right now, since we're all spending more time on video calls. The entry-level model only has 4GB of memory and 64GB of storage, however, which is probably too little for people who want to do more than surf the web. A more powerful version with twice the storage and memory will also be available. The Surface Go 2 will be available starting May 12.Surface Book 3Surface Book 3MicrosoftMicrosoft announced a new version of its high-end laptop, the Surface Book 3. Like earlier Surface Books, it has a unique design that allows you to remove the screen from the laptop so you can use it like a tablet. It's sort of like Microsoft's version of the MacBook Pro — it's targeted at the same type of power users — just with a screen you can take off and carry around. Microsoft upgraded it to the latest Intel 10th generation processors. It's also adding an option for NVIDIA Quadro RTX 3000 graphics, which it says commercial customers have asked for. It starts at $1,599 and will be available beginning on May 21.Surface Headphones 2 and a release date for Surface EarbudsSurface Headphones 2MicrosoftMicrosoft also announced the Surface Headphones 2, the latest version of its noise-cancelling headphones. They have a new ear-cup that's supposed to be more comfortable and 13 levels of ambient noise control, which lets you choose how much sound is blocked out in the background. But Microsoft said it specifically tuned these to block out people talking in places like noisy cafes (or, right now, noisy households). They'll be available in black for the first time when they launch on May 12 for $249.Surface EarbudsMicrosoftThe company's Apple AirPods competitor, Surface Earbuds, are finally launching. They were originally announced in October 2019 and were supposed to be sold during the holiday season but were delayed until the spring. I wasn't impressed in an early hands-on with them. They felt clunky, looked a little silly and had buggy controls, though Microsoft has had plenty of time to fix some of those complaints. They'll be available for $199 starting May 12.VIDEO1:4801:48Bulls bet on Microsoft & U.S. SteelHalftime ReportSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/09/15, Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft Corp., left, talks with his father Bill Gates Sr., during an event at the 92nd Street Y in New York, U.S., on Wednesday, June 2, 2010.Jeremy Bales | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesWilliam H. Gates II, a lawyer and philanthropist best known as the father of Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, has died at 94.Gates died peacefully Monday at his beach home in Washington state from Alzheimer's disease, the family announced Tuesday.In an obituary the family credited the patriarch with a "deep commitment to social and economic equity," noting that he was responsible for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation's first efforts to improve global health as well as his advocacy for progressive taxation, especially unsuccessful efforts to pass a state income tax on the wealthy in Washington."My dad's wisdom, generosity, empathy, and humility had a huge influence on people around the world," Bill Gates wrote in a tribute.

2020/05/28, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella, Microsoft CEOStephen Brashear | Getty ImagesMicrosoft has a piece of software that will let you customize certain parts of Windows 10. It's not included in the box, but it's still worth checking out -- despite the big "preview" label on the app. PowerToys is an open-source program available on GitHub, the code storage service Microsoft bought for $7.5 billion in 2018. You can download the latest version of PowerToys by going to its releases page.Windows remains the world's most popular PC operating system and still the source of about 15% of the company's total revenue. The PowerToys add-on serves as a proving ground for testing features that could ultimately be added into the core operating system, depending on how well received they are.The idea has been around for decades. Microsoft's original PowerToys debuted with Windows 95, and users could download them from Microsoft's website. They were essentially prototype programs that people at the company developed to test features as they were building Windows 95, explained longtime Microsoft employee Raymond Chen in a 2005 blog post.The idea then fell out of fashion until last year, when Microsoft announced that PowerToys were coming back.This time around, users have a channel for flagging issues and suggesting ideas, because the PowerToys project lives on GitHub. In addition, Microsoft is now taking a community approach: The PowerToys repository on GitHub shows that Microsoft employees have considered outsiders' proposals to draw on third-party tools to expand the official collection.There are now seven Windows 10 PowerToys, up from two last summer. Here's what you'll get in the download.FancyZonesFancyZones lets you create a custom layout for open programs on your desktop -- helpful to stay organized if you're often working in lots of different programs at once.For example, you could divide your desktop into six regions. Once you've created this layout, you can hold the Shift key down and drag an open program into one of the regions, which appear as grey rectangles, and it will simplyl simply snap into place. Image ResizerImage Resizer.ScreenshotIf you want to change the size of image files, you won't have to open an image editing program like Paint to do that.Instead, you can select them in the File Explorer or on your desktop, right-click, and use the "Resize pictures" option that PowerToys adds. There are a few dimensions to choose from, and you can customize those dimensions. You can also change the format of the file name of the new image that Windows will create for you.  Keyboard ManagerChanging the keyboard shortcut for opening a new File Explorer window with the Keyboard Manager PowerToy.ScreenshotNow you can make one key on your keyboard work like another -- so, for instance, if your "A" key is broken, you can program the "F10" key to take its place. You can also change Windows keyboard shortcuts. PowerToys developers plan to permit customization of shortcuts for individual programs.PowerRenameThe PowerRename tool.ScreenshotSometimes you need to change the names of a bunch of different files -- say if you've downloaded a bunch of image files from a smartphone and they all have generic names with numbers that you want to make more readable so you can find what you're looking for. Normally, you'd have to rename theme one at a time. With PowerRename, you can switch them up all in one move.PowerToys RunPowerToys Run gives fast access to your programs.ScreenshotPowerToys Run gives you fast access to files and applications. When you hit Alt-Space on your keyboard, a big rectangular text box pops up in the middle of your screen, and you can start searching — or running a shell command, or performing a math calculation. If you've grown tired of locating files or applications from the Start menu or the Command Prompt, this utility could be a fresh alternative that's sufficient for most searches.Shortcut GuideThis feature lets you hold down the Start key for a certain amount of time (you can adjust how long you have to press) to see a quick guide of other keys you can hit to trigger keyboard shortcuts for features like Settings, File Explorer and dictation.File Explorer preview panesThis SVG would not ordinarily be accessible as a preview in File Explorer.ScreenshotNormally, you can't take a quick look at Markdown files and icons that use the SVG file format while looking at files in the File Explorer. This tool changes that, so you don't have to open the file to get a sense of what it is.WATCH: Timothy Horan: Microsoft little impacted by Covid-19 due to cloud strategyVIDEO3:4303:43Timothy Horan: Microsoft little impacted by Covid-19 due to cloud strategyClosing Bell

2020/05/14, Satya Nadella, CEO of MicrosoftCNBCMicrosoft said Thursday it has agreed to acquire Metaswitch Networks, a company with software that telecommunications companies can use to deliver voice and data services to their customers. Terms of the deal weren't disclosed.The move shows Microsoft's efforts to target a single industry through inorganic deals rather than building expertise and technology in house. These efforts could help Microsoft gain further adoption of its Azure public cloud, which challenges market leader Amazon Web Services."The convergence of cloud and communication networks presents a unique opportunity for Microsoft to serve operators globally via continued investment in Azure, adding additional depth to our hyperscale cloud infrastructure with the specialized software required to run virtualized communication functions, applications and networks," Yousef Khalidi, a Microsoft corporate vice president, wrote in a blog post.Metaswitch has a 5G product for handling network traffic that can run on public cloud infrastructure. Customers could rely on the company's software atop cloud infrastructure rather than adding capacity in their own data centers to support additional network use at higher speeds. Microsoft announced the deal three weeks after the close of its acquisition of Affirmed Networks, a start-up targeting mobile carriers. Last year Microsoft itself announced a multi-year cloud deal with AT&T.Customers listed on the Metaswitch website include British Telecom, Sprint (which is now owned by T-Mobile), Swisscom, Telstra and Vodafone.Metaswitch has nearly 700 employees, according to LinkedIn. The company was founded in 1981 and has headquarters in London and Los Altos, California. Investors include Sequoia Capital. WATCH: Why Jim Cramer likes Microsoft's stockVIDEO5:3305:33Why Jim Cramer likes Microsoft's stockHalftime Report

2020/09/10, In this articlePYPLCFGVisitors play video games at the Xbox stand during 2020 China International Cartoon and Game Expo (CCG Expo) at Shanghai World Expo Exhibition and Convention Center on July 16, 2020 in Shanghai, China.Zhou You | Visual China Group | Getty ImagesA wave of major companies are suddenly letting people finance everything from video game consoles to hair products in smaller, monthly payments. These so-called installment loans have been around for decades, and historically used for big-ticket purchases such as furniture. But online payment players and fintechs are rushing to launch their own version of a "pay later" product for online items in the hundreds of dollars."There's no question this is on the rise," said JMP Securities analyst David Scharf. "The application of pay later in a digital environment has definitely gained traction."This week, Microsoft announced it would let consumers finance the new $499 XBox in monthly payments, through a partnership with Citizens Bank in the U.S., and fintech company Klarna in the U.K. PayPal announced an installment product last week, and Mastercard and Fiserv both announced new partnerships to expand installment options in recent days. American Express, Citi and J.P. Morgan Chase are offering similar products.The point-of-sale loans lets consumers buy something in increments, often without interest. Companies may eventually charge interest down the road, as well as late fees or processing fees. Similar to a credit card issuer, they may also get a percentage of the transaction price. More than a third of U.S. consumers have used a "buy now, pay later" service, according to a study published this summer by Ascent. The majority of those those surveyed used it to avoid paying credit card interest, or buy something "not in their budget.""Their sweet spot is young adults, particularly those who want to buy something now and don't necessarily have the money on hand," said Ted Rossman, an analyst at CreditCards.com. "These individuals are often wary of debt and may not have a ready alternative such as a credit card."Affirm has been one of the more popular, fast-growing start-ups in the space. It announced a partnership with Shopify earlier this year, and works with 6,000 merchants including Peloton, Expedia and Walmart. The company, which is reportedly eyeing a public offering, grew from 3 million customers in November to more than 5.6 million this in July. Following stay-at-home orders in March, Affirm told CNBC it saw the home fitness category grow 163%, home office grew 200%, and kitchen supplies up 70%. Fine printThe ease of signing up and popularity may distract from the fine print of these financial agreements. Only 22% of respondents from the Ascent survey said they "fully understand" the terms and conditions of using installment payments. Of those who avoid using installment payments, 49% said it's because they don't understand how these services work."You can still get into trouble if you don't make the payments —  the biggest downside is that it's people are using it without totally understanding what it means," Dann Albright, financial research analyst at The Ascent, told CNBC. "There are still late fees, interests on late fees, and interest payments for most of the plans but it's not always clear what those are."Another potential downside is that most of these programs don't help you build credit, because they don't typically report to credit bureaus, Creditcard.com's Rossman told CNBC. Affirm reports to Experian, for example, but popular start-ups Afterpay and Klarna, don't. Some resort to collections agencies if needed, and can bar you from future payment plans if you fall behind. Doug Bland, PayPal senior vice president of global credit, said the PayPal "Pay in Four" product was aimed at helping businesses drive sales without increasing costs, and giving consumers more flexibility. Like anything, Bland said there may be outliers of the "extreme" when it comes to overspending. But he predicted consumers will use installments in a healthy way."That's certainly not something that that we want to see happen and we're incredibly sensitive to ensuring that people understand the use of the product," Bland told CNBC. "For the most part, people are going to use this in a responsible way."

2020/05/19, In this articleMSFTMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella and Volkswagen CEO Herbert Diess (not seen) attend a session during their visit to Volkswagen Digital Lab in Berlin on February 27, 2019.Abdulhamid Hosbas | Anadolu Agency | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said Tuesday it's acquiring Softomotive, a company specializing in robotic-process automation, a technology to have computers perform repetitive actions. Terms of the deal weren't disclosed.The technology will hook in with Microsoft's existing RPA offering, Power Automate, which is part of the Power Platform portfolio of tools targeted at people who want to build applications but don't have as many technical skills as professional developers. Power Platform represents a growth opportunity beyond more mature product areas like Office, Windows and Microsoft's cloud business, Azure.Softomotive created WinAutomation, a Windows application for automating tasks in Windows. "Together with Power Automate, WinAutomation will provide customers additional options for RPA desktop authoring so anyone can build a bot and automate Windows-based tasks," Charles Lamanna, a Microsoft corporate vice president, wrote in a blog post. "The combined offering will also enable RPA connectivity to many new apps and services including SAP and traditional green-screen terminal applications."Softomotive was founded in 2005, with headquarters in London and over 150 employees, according to LinkedIn. The company has raised $25 million in funding, according to Crunchbase. Investors include Grafton Capital. Softomotive has over 7,000 customers, including Xerox.Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella mentioned that Microsoft is acquiring Softomotive during his opening remarks for the virtual Microsoft Build developers conference on Tuesday. Bloomberg reported that Microsoft was in talks to buy Softomotive earlier this month.WATCH: Adaptive Biotechnologies CEO on partnership with Microsoft to study Covid-19VIDEO7:0207:02Adaptive Biotechnologies CEO on partnership with Microsoft to study Covid-19Squawk Box

2020/03/11, US technical fellow and director at Microsoft Research Eric Horvitz poses prior to a meeting with journalists at Microsoft France headquarters in Issy-les-Moulineaux, near Paris, on June 21, 2018.Eric Piermont | AFP | Getty Images)Microsoft is switching the leadership of its research wing after senior executive Harry Shum left the company last month.The change signals Microsoft's interest in longer-term research efforts. In addition to unifying parts of Microsoft Research under one person, the company is more tightly integrating health care with the research group. The group was originally formed in 1991.In November, Microsoft said Shum, executive vice president for artificial intelligence and research at the company, would be leaving. Kevin Scott, Microsoft's technology chief, has taken on Shum's responsibilities. Shum left in February.Eric Horvitz, a technical fellow and director of Microsoft Research Labs, is being promoted into the role of chief scientific officer, a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Tuesday. It's the first time a Microsoft employee is receiving that title. "As Chief Scientist, Eric will provide cross-company leadership on advances and trends on scientific matters, and on issues and opportunities rising at the intersection of technology, people and society," the spokesperson wrote. "He and his org will be responsible for advising on Microsoft's scientific directions and capabilities, including standing up new initiatives, providing guidance on company priorities and assessing important areas for investment in science and technology."Horvitz joined Microsoft in 1993 and spent 16 years as a principal researcher, according to his LinkedIn profile. He's co-chair of Microsoft's Artificial Intelligence and Ethics in Engineering and Research (AETHER) committee.Peter Lee will now be in charge of Microsoft Research, the spokesperson wrote. Lee was most recently corporate vice president for Microsoft Healthcare. He has also led Microsoft's broad Healthcare NExT group. It will be under Lee going forward along with other units, the spokesperson wrote.Lee was already running parts of Microsoft Research, as well as leading many health teams around the company, according to a person familiar with the matter. Now, he'll oversee all of the labs and better integrate health projects with research, the person said. The company's health push, which has been split across organizations, is increasingly coming under a single leader.Facebook, Google and IBM are among the other large technology companies with major research labs alongside Microsoft. These organizations constantly battle for the brightest talent. Once researchers join, they can publish academic papers and share open-source software, while also contributing to their companies' products to varying degrees. Google, which competes with Microsoft in cloud infrastructure and other markets, has been active in health care research in the past.Most of the biggest technology companies don't have one leader running health care. Instead, companies like Google have a team under cloud, which is separate from its health product unit. The exception is Apple, which has been consolidating its efforts under operating chief Jeff Williams.Lee joined Microsoft as managing director of Microsoft Research Redmond in 2010. Before that he was head of Carnegie Mellon University's computer science department and an office director at the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, according to his LinkedIn profile.WATCH: Microsoft surprises investors by warning it will miss guidance amid outbreakVIDEO1:2101:21Microsoft surprises investors by warning it will miss guidance amid outbreakSquawk Alley

2020/04/16, In this articleMSFTMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella and NBA Commissioner Adam Silver.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg via Getty Images; Stacy Revere | Getty ImagesThe National Basketball Association will adopt Microsoft's Azure cloud to enhance the online experience for fans, and will use Microsoft Surface tablets in unspecified ways, starting in the league's 2020-21 season, the parties announced Thursday. The duration and terms of the deal were not disclosed.The deal comes as the NBA is on hiatus -- the league suspended the current season on March 11 to limit coronavirus exposure, and other sports leagues have made similar moves. Given that teams could be holding games without crowds for some time, he said, it's even more important that the league's engineers start assembling the new system."I think the fact that we are announcing it in the middle of this pandemic is a testament to how important it is that we move forward with this deal," NBA Commissioner Adam Silver told CNBC in an interview on Wednesday. "Time is of the essence here."An NBA spokesperson said the league could use Microsoft's technology to add new features to its website and apps, such as delivering games in fans' native languages, letting them chat during games, displaying the best camera angle for the moment and showing relevant stats about favorite players. The league also wants to draw on archive videos to augment what people see while watching and roll highlight clips of favorite players.Silver said that fans may prefer courtside seats over anything else to witness games, but the new digital capabilities are meant to bring them as close as possible."How can you replace that experience?" Silver said. "Maybe we can come close to it."On a technical level, the NBA will move some key workloads to Azure from its on-premises data centers for its website and mobile apps, and will use Azure tools for indexing events in footage, encoding video feeds and consolidating disparate data sources in a single virtual place, a Microsoft spokesperson explained. Azure will be the exclusive cloud partner for the NBA's direct-to-consumer service.Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella noted that the company has worked with the NBA for a long time. The new work came about because the NBA envisioned becoming a first-class provider of digital services, and the league went searching for a company with which it could have a trusted relationship and that has modern cloud and artificial intelligence capabilities, Nadella said."It's a pretty unique partnership for us," Nadella said.In previous years the company has announced cloud deals with firms like AT&T, Gap, Salesforce and Walmart, and it beat out market leader Amazon Web Services for a prominent defense contract, which Amazon is contesting in federal court. Nadella once ran Microsoft's cloud business, and in his six years as CEO he has made cloud a greater focus.Now he has an answer for what today's Microsoft can do in the sports world, after his predecessor Steve Ballmer scored a multiyear deal with the National Football League in 2013 that put Surface tablets into the hands of coaches and players -- and gave Surface a prominent spot in NFL broadcasts. It is not yet clear if the NBA deal will include similar product placement. (Ballmer, who left Microsoft in 2014, is now owner of the NBA's Los Angeles Clippers.)The deal also shows how Microsoft is still advancing big projects even while employees stay separated. Microsoft and the NBA began discussing the effort before the company sent home nonessential workers to prevent further spread of the coronavirus, Nadella said."It's pretty amazing what productivity has been in the context of work from home," he said. "In fact, our teams have been meeting, talking, getting the deal specifics done. That is a host of job functions and work and productivity and economic activity that continue."WATCH: CNBC's full interview with Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaVIDEO15:3015:30Watch CNBC's full interview with Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaSquawk Alley

2020/04/01, The massive amount of automation and digital transformation taking place in the business world would be impossible if companies needed to code all of it "the old-fashioned way." Low-code and no-code platforms are building new applications faster and allowing non-coders within a company to be involved.Joe Raedle | Getty ImagesThe coronavirus has stressed the ability of public officials and government agencies to act quickly enough to take control of a fast-moving crisis, but one way in which New York City has moved with previously impossible speed is online. The city — beseiged by the pandemic — created a COVID-19 crisis-management software platform in a matter of days, and without writing one line of computer code. Time is of the essence. The online portal, which allows New York to map the virus and identify hot spots, as well as connect residents to critical services, was built with no-code start-up Unqork. Backed by investors including Alphabet's CapitalG and the world's largest money manager BlackRock, Unqork's no-code software allowed the city to go live with the service in 72 hours, using no more than visual drag-and-drop tools to create it."Information is power, and we are in a race against the clock," said Jessica Tisch, commissioner of the NYC Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications and the Citywide CIO, in a release on Wednesday. "To fight the coronavirus pandemic, we need not only more medical equipment and testing but also more data in real time. We hope this program will serve as a model for other municipalities around the world." The Unqork-built portal can be customized for other cities, counties or states and can be live in 48 to 72 hours. VIDEO1:4401:44Emergency hospital beds being built in Central Park to combat coronavirusClosing BellThe coronavirus build is a notable use case for no-code software, but what is referred to as low-code and no-code is fast becoming an intense area of competition between technology and cloud giants, including Microsoft and Alphabet's Google. In addition to investing in Unqork, Google Cloud acquired one of the biggest no-code players, AppSheet, earlier this year.450 million new apps in next 5 years"The old way of doing it for decades was to get a hundred people in IT to spend three years on the product to design software for the end customer, collecting all the information to the risk-management system and through the front and back office, and it's a massive IT project," said Alex Schmelkin, chief marketing officer at Unqork.While the New York City case is an extremely quick build, Schmelkin said what a financial services company used to spend years on can now be built in months. "In no-code a small handful of developers gets together with business people and a final working piece of software can be produced in three months," he said. Unqork, which employs approximately 100 coders itself, has focused primarily on the financial services sector to date because it is an industry that the start-up's top officials understand. Founder and CEO Gary Hoberman was previously chief information officer at MetLife. Its clients include John Hancock, Goldman Sachs and Liberty Mutual. But Unqork's ambitions extend to other slow-to-change sectors, like government and health care and real estate, and it works across all three major cloud platforms — Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud and Amazon Web Services, the latter of which has the largest market share in the cloud."We're cloud agnostic," Schmelkin said. "We said we will tackle the most stubborn, old-fashioned industries that think they can't innovate because of legacy systems or mainframes that are decades old."  "Everyone is bringing their assets to the cloud, and we can accelerate that by allowing companies to shut off data center assets more quickly," Schmelkin said.At Microsoft, a simple run of the numbers on how many apps will be built in the next five years shows how critical low-code and no-code software will become. Microsoft expects 500 million new apps to be built in the next half decade, which is more than all the apps built in the last 40 years."If that's true, 450 million have to be built with a low-code tool," said Charles Lamanna, corporate vice president of the citizen applications platform at Microsoft. "There are not enough humans to code fast enough to build that many. Professional developers should focus on harder challenges than another expense submission form or approval form."VIDEO15:3015:30Watch CNBC's full interview with Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaSquawk AlleyIn terms of usage, its Power Apps is the fastest-growing business app ever at Microsoft, and Lamanna compared this moment in time to when public cloud infrastructure began to take off at the beginning of the last decade. "There are tons of processes today tracked in Excel spreadsheets, and being able to move to an app improves efficiency. Apps for fieldwork are growing five times faster than IT departments can satisfy," Lamanna said. "Our goals are very ambitious, mainly because we see such strong customer demand out there," he said.The Microsoft executive — who stressed the company refers to the Power platform rather than Power Apps — said the largest value is with an integrated suite. "People don't go buy Word and spreadsheets separately," he said. Some third-party forecasts have estimated Power Apps could represent a $10 billion revenue driver for Microsoft, but Lamanna said that's not high enough. "We think the opportunity is even larger than that. It's a massive surface area," he said.Microsoft Excel, which still requires the use of some formulas by users, is like a rudimentary "low code" software that replaced decades of number-crunching. An estimate of the number of business professionals already using Excel and doing some complicated tasks with it, and potentially migrating over to new platforms, can produce a big number. And it is expected that "self-serve" software like Excel, where the numbers of users are huge already, will move to managed platforms and increasingly become app developers.More technology companies will build in no-codeAmit Zavery, general manager and vice president of Google Cloud who came from Oracle, said in past decades many tech vendors offered what can be considered "proto" low-code/no-code software."Making it easier to build an app has been around as long as software has existed, but the older products were very specific to one technology, and what's happening now is that no-code allows you to do it across multiple platforms — Oracle, Salesforce and many others — rather than be tied to one vendor. And that's where the value is getting better," Zavery said. "When it was tied to one company's product, you could not build powerful apps."The Google Cloud executive said there's still a distinction between low-code, which requires some technical expertise to build an app, and no-code software, which is "really catering to the rank and file, anyone who has never built without needing to call IT," but Zavery thinks the world will move more rapidly to no-code.No-code software can require only a few days for workers to get trained on, and while low-code is still easier for tech vendors to build, the no-code product set is increasing. Google acquisition AppSheet has had 1.8 million apps created on its platform. "We saw people doing lots of work on AppSheet before we bought it," Zavery said. "No-code is the next generation of change and improvements. Most vendors are going to no-code if they can build it," he said.  Every cloud vendor will have something in this area.Amit Zaverygeneral manager and vice president, Google CloudGoogle Cloud is integrating AppSheet with G Suite (the cloud-based collaboration and productivity Google set of apps that includes work staples like Gmail, Docs, Drive and Calendar), which has many non-technical business-world users in sectors like manufacturing and utilities. "We've seen lots of no-code at companies like American Electric Power, one of the largest utilities in the U.S.," Zavery said. Alphabet is probably not done competing with rivals for acquisitions in this area, either.  "Over time, anything like this usually goes through consolidation," Zavery said. "It's much more powerful if it's integrated and better built across a set of services. Every cloud vendor will have something in this area," he added.AWS for everyone?Recent market speculation has centered on Amazon's response to Microsoft Power Apps and Google's AppSheet deal. Even Apple has long owned a low-code platform, called FileMaker, though it gets little attention compared to its consumer products, and Apple does not compete in the enterprise cloud services market.Amazon will have to respond to low-code and no-code, said Rob Koplowitz, vice president at Forrester Research, which coined the term "low-code" years ago. "Microsoft Azure is a major player and Power Apps is a big push for them," Koplowitz said, and he added that the Google acquisition of AppSheet was at least partly a response to Microsoft."I suspect the answer is AWS needs to develop something itself, but for all of them, there is still this careful dance to be done about nurturing large partner ecosystems," Koplowitz said. "If you are selling AppSheet, users don't want to be told they have to deploy on Google Cloud."AppSheet continues to be available on all the major cloud platforms, while Google Cloud offers no-code software like Unqork. "Unqork is now deep in one industry, financial services, so not a competitor to AppSheet. Over time users might be able to use one or the other, but today we don't see that," Zavery said. Adam Bosworth, a well-regarded technology executive who had been linked to reports of an "AWS for Everyone" product in recent years and "gave some credibility to the effort at Amazon," according to Koplowitz, recently left Amazon. But Bosworth said in a personal blog post that the project he had worked on at Amazon was coming "relatively soon" and has "as much potential as any I've ever built."John Rymer, Forrester Research vice president and leader of its cloud platform application development research effort, said tech vendors that have the most momentum, growing 100% a year, are in low-code niches. "It's just massive, growing really fast," Rymer said. Everyone is curious about Amazon's plans, but "regardless of what Bosworth and his guys have built, AWS has a serious challenge in front of it in low-code," he said. "Their core customer is the 'alpha geek,' period. The alpha geeks will say 'Real men code' and say 'Low code? Forget it.'"Amazon Web Services spokesman Scott Beaver declined to comment on any plans it has for low-code or no-code software services. A 1 million developer shortfallCoders and software engineers who build complex applications will not be going away. They may just be going even more to jobs at the tech giants. The more no-code platforms grow, the more demand there will be for the specialists to run the underlying technology."If people build on Google Cloud using AppSheet, the volume of users and data keeps going up, so I need more people to keep running the infrastructure so it can scale," Zavery said. "And software engineers building complex apps will still exist. Tech like the Uber app can't be built using no-code." With the software vendors hiring engineers aggressively, shortages in finding talent to build applications result in the risk of companies waiting too long before they can deliver to business users. "This is a good way out," Zavery said. "You don't have to hire lots of people, since you can't find them anyway. It's a good way to get going and not have business disruption."Companies outside tech need their most sophisticated software engineers to be more productive and, at the same time, increase the number of staffers who can access and create enterprise technology even if they did not come from a computer science background."There is a 1 million developer shortfall in the U.S. alone, and all these companies are struggling to create content and applications to go truly digitally native. You don't need someone who studied comp sci for four years," said Microsoft's Lamanna.Unqork now has more than 2,000 people it has trained and certified to build on its software-as-a-service platform. The start-up says that the first set of badges can be completed in one to three weeks (it has had  high school juniors who were trained and certified in less than a month) and "master level" reached in under three months."People can be coding in Java for 10 years and still not be considered master level," Schmelkin said.Unqork has started to see its skills certifications show up in LinkedIn profiles. "If you look at some Liberty Mutual employees, they are showing on LinkedIn their Unqorked badges," he said. "I grew up as a coder and a hacker, and I believe there will always be need for incredible programmers and technologists, but can't train them fast enough, and it's harder to get them into stodgier industries. Even an enormous bank in the Midwest will have a hard time competing with Google, Facebook."But there are risks in turning every employee into an app developer without setting up the proper processes and infrastructure first, Forrester's Rymer said. He was aware of one large insurance company that inherited a portfolio of 16,000 Quick Base applications running on a version of Quick Base that had been end-of-lifed. "That's the example of a company that brings in low-code with no governance, and it's a nightmare," Rymer said. "That was completely the fault of the customer and illustrates how badly things can go without governance." Quick Base, like most other vendors,  has been building tools to help customers govern their low-code development projects and portfolios."That's what people are afraid of. It's just gonna be chaos and business people creating junk, and IT forced to support it," Rymer said.  VIDEO0:2800:28Tech companies partner with WHO for a coronavirus hackathonClosing BellStory has been updated to include comment from Forrester Research analyst John Rymer on Quick Base.

2020/02/21, Microsoft President and Chief Legal Officer Brad Smith, CEO Satya Nadella, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Amy Hood and Chairman John Thompson pictured at the Microsoft annual meeting of shareholders in Bellevue, Washington, on November 30, 2016.Jason Redmond | AFP | Getty Images)Satya Nadella has almost completely changed the group of top Microsoft executives who make key decisions and iron out issues since taking the company's CEO title from Steve Ballmer in 2014.Today's senior leadership team includes the leader of LinkedIn, Microsoft's biggest acquisition yet, but has no single person who's responsible for all of Windows. From the Ballmer years, only finance chief Amy Hood and legal head Brad Smith have stuck around with Nadella.In 2014, Nadella asked each person on the senior leadership team to make an "'all in' commitment as we embark on the next chapter for the company," he wrote in a memo to employees. He announced at the same time that Skype executive Tony Bates, who had been a candidate for Microsoft CEO, was leaving.In the years since, a handful of other leaders have left, including Windows chief Terry Myerson, Nokia leader Stephen Elop (also once a CEO candidate) and business solutions executive Kirill Tatarinov. Most recently, artificial intelligence and research head Harry Shum left the leadership team recently after 23 years at the company, a spokesperson confirmed.But the departures haven't resulted in deep institutional knowledge going away. Eight of the 14 people on the current SLT, as the executive group is known at Microsoft, have been at the company for at least two decades. The group gathers each Friday, and meetings can span as long as seven hours, as Fast Company reported in 2017.Here are the current members of Microsoft's SLT:Satya Nadella: The bossMicrosoft CEO Satya NadellaSean Gallup | Getty ImagesNadella grew up in Hyderabad, India, and joined Microsoft from Sun Microsystems in 1992 as a program manager in the company's Windows developer relations group. In the years to come he worked on advertising, search, commerce and public cloud, among other areas. At one point in the early 2000s, Jeff Bezos tried to recruit him to Amazon, but then-executive Doug Burgum (now the governor of North Dakota) convinced him to stay, Burgum told Fast Company in 2017.It turned out to be a good career move.After Steve Ballmer announced plans to step down as CEO in 2013, Nadella became Microsoft's third CEO on February 4, 2014, and immediately set out transforming the company. He emphasized areas like cloud where Microsoft was a challenger rather than a leader, and formed partnerships with rivals like Red Hat and SAP. Nadella has insisted that Microsoft loves open-source software despite Microsoft's past attacks on Linux, and he has made it clear that the Windows operating system, the historical core of Microsoft, was no longer the top priority.Nadella also set about changing Microsoft's cutthroat and bureaucratic culture. He encouraged employees to have a so-called "growth mindset" — the belief that people can develop new skills and knowledge with enough effort — after his wife, Anu, introduced him to the book "Mindset" by Carol Dweck years ago. Soon after becoming CEO, he asked top Microsoft executives to read "Nonviolent Communication" by Marshall Rosenberg.It "was the first clear indication that Satya was going to focus on transforming not just the business strategy but the culture as well," legal chief Brad Smith has said.Nadella received $42.9 million in total compensation in the 2019 fiscal year. Microsoft's independent board members recognized Nadella's efforts to improve the company's culture in the most recent fiscal year, and they felt that his engagement with customers, partners and investors was "exceptional." They credited him for leading the company to record financial results.Many people have observed that Nadella is especially present when he meets with people in person. "He has a hugely proactive and incredibly connected listening [style]. So he's with you," executive vice president Jean-Philippe Courtois has said. "You can feel it. You can see the body language. And it doesn't matter if you're a top executive or a first-line seller, he has exactly the same quality of listening."Judson Althoff: The salesmanJudson Althoff, Microsoft's executive vice president for worldwide commercial business, at Microsoft's 2017 Inspire conference in Washington.MicrosoftAs executive vice president of Microsoft's Worldwide Commercial Business, Althoff is in charge of commercial business strategy for enterprise, public sector, small and medium-sized businesses and other areas.He joined Microsoft in 2013 from Oracle to become president of Microsoft's North American business, reporting to Microsoft's then-operating chief, Kevin Turner. Turner left in 2016, opening the way for Althoff, among others, to take more responsibility. Prior to joining Microsoft, Althoff had spent 11 years at Oracle, most recently as senior vice president for worldwide alliances and channels and embedded sales. He had worked at EMC prior to that.Althoff led the development of a major sales reorganization in 2017 that saw Microsoft go deeper in key industries like retail and health care.Chris Capossela: The marketerChris Capossela, chief marketing officer of Microsoft, poses for a photograph following an early access event at the new Microsoft flagship store in London on July 9, 2019.Chris J. Ratcliffe | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCapossela, Microsoft's chief marketing officer and executive vice president for marketing and consumer business, wears several hats. He's in charge of Microsoft's marketing and communications, the consumer and device sales teams, along with advertising, sales and physical stores.In 1991 Capossela, known inside Microsoft as ChrisCap, graduated with a bachelor's degree from Harvard University, which Bill Gates had dropped out of in 1975, and went to work at Microsoft as a marketing manager. In the late 1990s he spent two and a half years as Bill Gates' speech assistant, and was corporate vice president for Office marketing for more than seven years, according to his LinkedIn profile.A 2011 Microsoft statement described Capossela as being "instrumental in ushering Office into the cloud with Office Web Apps and Office 365." Nadella made him marketing chief in 2014. He delegated everything, one former Microsoft marketing executive told AdAge in 2014."Marketing at Microsoft includes building a profitable business, so understanding the flow of money is crucial," Capossela said in a 2014 interview.Jean-Philippe Courtois: The international businessmanMassimo Lapucci, right, and Jean-Philippe Courtois, left, attend a meeting between OGR and Microsoft to support startups at OGR Officine Grandi Riparazioni on Dec. 9, 2019, in Turin, Italy.Giorgio Perottino | Getty Images | OGRCourtois, known by his initials JPC, is an executive vice president and president of Microsoft global sales, marketing and operations. He heads up Microsoft's commercial business across Microsoft's many subsidiaries.He joined Microsoft as a channel sales representative in 1984, before the company's 1986 initial public offering, and in 1994 he became general manager of Microsoft France.In the early 2000s he was CEO of Microsoft's Europe, Middle East and Africa branch, then became president of Microsoft's international business until July 2016, when Kevin Turner left. Then he became executive vice president and president for global sales, marketing and operations.Courtois received $15.1 million in total compensation in the 2019 fiscal year. Microsoft board members gave him kudos for having a "customer-obsessed" approach and pushing for more conversations about diversity and inclusion in the most recent fiscal year.Kurt DelBene: The strategistRep. John Boehner, R-Ohio, left, conducts a ceremonial swearing-in with Rep.-Elect Suzan DelBene, D-Wash., as her husband Kurt looks on in the Capitol on Nov. 13, 2012.Tom Williams | CQ Roll CallDelBene is Microsoft's chief digital officer and executive vice president of corporate strategy and the Core Services Engineering and Operations group. He looks after Microsoft's internal technology and its strategy, keeps track of competitive issues and explores potential business opportunities.He joined Microsoft in 1992 from McKinsey, where he had been a management consultant, and eventually rose to be president of Microsoft's Office division.DelBene is considered a founder of Office 365, a core part of Microsoft's modern cloud push. He was previously general manager for Outlook and group program manager for Exchange. The BBC once described DelBene as "the man behind the PowerPoint presentations." In 2013 he retired from Microsoft as part of a Microsoft reorganization. Months later President Obama asked him to help fix Healthcare.gov. In 2015 DelBene returned to Microsoft on Nadella's request.He led Office when Microsoft was building the software to make Office apps work on Apple's iPad -- an initiative that Ballmer was lukewarm about, but that Nadella brought to fruition when he took over."It came to a point where I had discussions with Steve [Ballmer], and Steve was really kind of conflicted about it," DelBene said at a company event in 2015. "He thought of us as the Windows company first and foremost, and would Office be strong if Windows wasn't strong? And my perspective was both need to be strong and Office will not be able to fundamentally be the thing that changes that equation one way or the other. But what it could do, if we didn't have cross-platform, is it could reduce the value of Office and the value proposition for Office very substantially. And so we went back and forth a couple of times. He finally said, 'Nope, I don't want to ship it.' And one of the very first things that Satya did when he became CEO is he shipped the iPad version of Office."In 2012 his wife, Suzan DelBene, a former Microsoft executive herself, became a U.S. representative for Washington's 1st Congressional district.Scott Guthrie: The cloud chiefScott Guthrie, executive vice president for Microsoft's Cloud and AI group, speaks at the company's Build conference in Seattle in May 2019.MicrosoftGuthrie, known by his email handle ScottGu, is executive vice president in charge of the company's Cloud and AI group. In 2018 Guthrie gained more power when Microsoft divvied up the Windows and Devices Group and moved a good chunk of it — the Windows platform team — into his organization.He joined Microsoft immediately after taking his bachelor's degree from Duke University in 1997.He was a founding member of the team that developed Microsoft's .NET, a set of technologies for software developers to write applications. He's also the father of ASP.NET, for building web applications.For many years he has shown up at events in solid red polo shirts, the closest Microsoft comes to having a person with a regular uniform like former Apple CEO Steve Jobs, who often wore black turtlenecks.In 2011 he took control of the application platform team for Azure, Microsoft's cloud infrastructure offering that competes with Amazon Web Services, to get developers building on Azure. Back then Azure was not the company's biggest priority, and it wasn't the easiest thing to use. Even some Microsoft executives had trouble with it, Business Insider reported.The day before Nadella became CEO, he asked Guthrie to take over for him as head of Microsoft's Cloud and Enterprise business that includes Azure. "We've worked so closely together, so it was a pretty quick conversation," Guthrie said in a 2019 interview.Kathleen Hogan: HRKathleen Hogan speaks at the @Work event in New York City on April 2, 2019.Cindy Ord | CNBCHogan is Microsoft's executive vice president of human resources and chief people officer. She led the charge on an overhaul of the employee performance review process. She worked on the company's paid-leave policy, and under her Microsoft has made inclusion a higher priority. She's also addressed questions about harassment complaints within the company.She earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard in 1988, according to her LinkedIn profile, then joined Microsoft from McKinsey in 2003 as vice president of customer and partner experience and worldwide field operations. She later took responsibility for technical support as well. She became chief people officer in 2014 after Nadella called her while she was on a road trip during a sabbatical and asked her to take the job."I think Satya really had a vision for making this a purpose-driven place and also an exceptional place for people to work, and so I thought, 'What a great chance to go do that,'" she said in a conversation with Capossela.Hogan is Nadella's "partner in transforming our culture," he wrote in his 2017 book "Hit Refresh." She became a bigger supporter of Nadella after seeing how he handled criticism for saying in 2014 that women shouldn't ask for raises but instead have faith in the system."He didn't blame anybody," she said. "He owned it. He came out to the entire company, and he said, 'We're going to learn, and we're going to get a lot smarter.'"Amy Hood: The money masterAmy Hood, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Microsoft, speaks at a climate initiative event at the company's campus in Redmond, Wash., on Jan. 16, 2020.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAs Microsoft's chief financial officer, Hood runs the finance group, giving her responsibility for acquisitions, tax planning, treasury activities, accounting, internal audits and investor relations.Hood graduated from Harvard Business School in 1999 and worked as an investment banker at Goldman Sachs. She joined Microsoft in 2002, initially working in the company's investor relations team. Later she was chief of staff of Microsoft's Server and Tools group, and in 2010 she became finance chief of the Microsoft Business Division. She helped lead the transition to Office 365, and oversaw the acquisitions of Skype and Yammer.When Hood stepped up to replace Peter Klein as finance chief in 2013, becoming the first woman to hold that role in company history, the strategy seemed to be less about growing revenue than cutting costs. "Peter has built a world-class finance team, and I am set up well to continue the company's strong discipline around costs and focus on driving shareholder value," she said.By 2015, as executives were planning the company's briefing for financial analysts, Hood felt that the company should show investors how Microsoft could become more relevant, according to a 2017 Harvard Business School case study. At that meeting, Nadella introduced an ambitious new goal focused on growth rather than costs: The company aimed to achieve a $20 billion annualized revenue run rate from commercial cloud services including Azure, Office 365, Dynamics and enterprise mobility services in the 2018 fiscal year. Microsoft achievedthat goal.She received $20.2 million in total compensation in the 2019 fiscal year. Board members gave Hood credit for "record year financial performance and management" and cost cutting across multiple departments in the most recent fiscal year.Rajesh Jha: The Office guruRajesh Jha, executive vice president for experiences and devices at Microsoft, speaks at the company's Build conference in Seattle in May 2019.MicrosoftAs Microsoft's executive vice president of experiences and devices, Jha leads one of the major groups of engineers in the company. Most of his time at Microsoft he's worked on software for business use, and he's worked on the Office suite for many years. A 2018 reorganization gave him purview over more products, including devices and the Windows client. Jha has a say in the planning process for where Microsoft's data centers should be, alongside Scott Guthrie.Jha joined Microsoft in 1990 as a software design engineer immediately after receiving a master's degree from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. He contributed to five releases of the Microsoft Works suite and later developed multimedia technologies."I said, 'Wow, I can't believe they're actually trusting me to ship stuff,'" he recalled in a 2018 conversation with Dharmesh Thakker of Battery Ventures. "And sure enough, you know, I had some hideous bugs that went out in the first release, and I was incredibly down on myself."He remembered being conflicted about whether he wanted to be a developer or a manager, and he flip-flopped between the roles before his ascent to the top tiers of management at the company."Outside of work, you will often find me playing sports with my two sons. I am an avid sports fan and love to watch and play football, soccer, golf — sometimes more than my wife appreciates. ;)," he wrote in a 2008 blog post.Jha speaks in bullet points, his former administrative assistant, Genise Dawson, has said.Peggy Johnson: The dealmakerPeggy Johnson, executive vice president of business development at Microsoft, speaks during the Wall Street Journal D.Live global technology conference in Laguna Beach, Calif., on Oct. 17, 2017.Patrick T. Fallon | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAs executive vice president of business development, Johnson oversees Microsoft's business partnerships and corporate venture capital program, M12. She also has considerable influence on the company's M&A strategy.She was Nadella's first big hire as CEO, joining from Qualcomm. Her first assignment was to improve Microsoft's relationship with Samsung, which was upset that Microsoft had entered the smartphone space by buying Nokia in 2013. At Qualcomm she had leadership roles in engineering, sales and marketing, as well as business development. Prior to that, she had worked on anti-submarine warfare as an engineer at GE. She was one of 15 kids.Her total compensation for the 2019 fiscal year exceeded $10.4 million. Microsoft board members credited her for efforts to promote diversity and inclusion in the most recent fiscal year, noting that she helped to launch the inaugural Female Founders Competition alongside partners EQT Ventures and SVB Financial Group."Over the course of my career, I've spent thousands of hours in pitch meetings, often as the only woman in the room. I still can't hold back a smile when a woman founder walks through the door, because I know the obstacles she's overcome just to get there," she wrote in a blog post announcing the contest.Kevin Scott: Technical mindKevin Scott, executive vice president and chief technology officer of Microsoft, speaks during the GeekWire Cloud Summit in Bellevue, Wash., on June 5, 2019.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesScott, Microsoft's chief technology officer, works on the company's technical vision, and in November Microsoft said he would take on Shum's responsibilities, giving him leadership of people focused on research and AI.He's a remote executive, and lives in Los Gatos, California, in Silicon Valley. He's typically spent a few days a week at headquarters in Redmond, Washington. "I will in all honesty say it's not my favorite thing in the world," he said on a podcast in 2018. "I've sort of been shocked that I've been able to do as much of this job as I have been able to do remotely."He arrived at Microsoft through the acquisition of LinkedIn, where he had been a senior vice president, and was named Microsoft's technology chief in 2017, less than two months after the acquisition closed. He reports to Nadella.Scott initially wanted to be a computer-science professor. He spent time as a summer intern at Microsoft in 2001 while working on his Ph.D. at the University of Virginia, which he did not end up completing. His Ph.D. advisor, professor Jack Davidson, spent a sabbatical at Microsoft Research at corporate headquarters and got Scott a spot as an intern on the team where he worked, the programming language systems group. He also spent time at Google and AdMob, which Google later acquired.In 2018 he said the work he was proudest of was writing "a bunch of software that people still use, you know, to this day, to do research in this very arcane, dark alley of computer science."Brad Smith: The lawyerBrad Smith, president of Microsoft, right, speaks as Christopher Eisgruber, president of Princeton University, left, and Princeton Graduate Maria De La Cruz Perales Sanchez listen during a news conference outside the Supreme Court in Washington, D.C. on Nov. 12, 2019.Al Drago | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesSmith, Microsoft's president and chief legal officer, regularly speaks about Microsoft's positions on government policy, immigration, intellectual property, privacy, security and sustainability. He led Microsoft's negotiations with governments and companies, including antitrust agreements, and helped Microsoft build up a large collection of patents.Smith directed Microsoft lawyers to figure out the degree to which open-source software infringed on Microsoft's patents. And he saw Microsoft's U.S. antitrust trial play out in person.He joined Microsoft in 1993 from the law firm Covington & Burling to head up European corporate and legal affairs, and he became the company's general counsel in 2002. In 2015 he was named president.He arrives at work at 6:30 a.m. and leaves at 6:45 p.m., and at 9:30 p.m. he logs on to handle work email, according to the Puget Sound Business Journal.Mark Zuckerberg once tried to recruit him, but he told the young CEO that he was not interested in leaving Microsoft, the Information reported in 2018.He received $17.4 million in total compensation in the 2019 fiscal year. Board members recognized Smith's policy efforts related to the General Data Protection Regulation and the Paris Call for Trust and Security in Cyberspace in the most recent fiscal year.Smith has been on the Netflix board since 2015.Phil Spencer: The gamerPhil Spencer, executive vice president at Microsoft, speaks at the company's Xbox One X reveal event ahead of the E3 Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles on June 11, 2017.Patrick T. Fallon | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesSpencer is executive vice president for gaming, where he's in charge of gaming devices like the upcoming Xbox Series X console, as well as services like the xCloud streaming service.Spencer interned at Microsoft in 1988, two years after the company's initial public offering. After graduating from the University of Washington in 1990 he returned to Microsoft for a spot in the company's multimedia group. He led Microsoft's game studios and, later, all of Xbox.Spencer had presented Microsoft with a chance to buy Mojang, the developer of the game Minecraft, before Nadella's 2014 CEO appointment, Nadella wrote in his 2017 book "Hit Refresh." Spencer's boss chose not to move forward with a deal, Nadella wrote. Spencer kept in touch with Mojang and one day received a text saying the company was again for sale. This time Spencer brought the opportunity to Nadella who by then was CEO, and Microsoft bought Mojang for $2.5 billion.He's well liked by the gaming public. He shares his online ID, P3, making it possible for people to play games like racing title Forza with him over the Xbox Live service.tweetIn 2017 Spencer, Microsoft's executive vice president of gaming, joined the SLT, a sign of the company's commitment to gaming.Microsoft has bought several game-development studios under Spencer's supervision, including Compulsion Games, Double Fine Productions, InXile, Ninja Theory, Obsidian, Playground Games and Undead Labs. In November Spencer made it clear that Microsoft's buying spree is not over. "We're running a good business today, so we've earned the right to continue to look," he said in an interview with Eurogamer.Jeff Weiner: SocialiteJeff Weiner, chief executive officer of LinkedIn Corp., speaks during a Studio 1.0 interview in San Francisco, California, U.S.Bloomberg | Getty ImagesWeiner is CEO of LinkedIn, a social network for professionals, with more than 675 million members. But in June he'll be replaced by Ryan Roslansky, currently senior vice president of product.Weiner has more than 10 million followers on LinkedIn, and he regularly likes and comments on users' posts. And from time to time he does post, generating hundreds of comments."Very late to the Peloton craze (have a number of colleagues who have sworn by it for years) but have quickly become a huge fan," he wrote last fall. "Absolutely nailed the value proposition."Before joining LinkedIn in 2008 he had held several leadership positions at Yahoo, and before that he had spent five years at Warner Bros., according to his LinkedIn profile. He was 24 when he got to Warner Bros., and he carried with him a report showing how the company could move forward in digital. "I was just this little pisher, a nobody. But they liked the report," he told Forbes in 2012.WATCH: Microsoft shares reach record highs after posting strong quarterVIDEO2:5902:59Microsoft shares reach record highs after posting strong quarterSquawk Alley

2020/04/30, Eric Yuan, CEO, Zoom Video CommunicationsSource: CNBCZoom's choice of Oracle as a cloud vendor was a surprise when the news landed Tuesday morning. But a day later, the pick made a lot more sense, after Google and Microsoft showed signs of moving more aggressively into Zoom's sweet spot.Google, which is third in public cloud infrastructure market share in the U.S., behind Amazon and Microsoft, said on Wednesday that it's giving away its Meet video chat product for free starting in May. Zoom shares dropped 6.5% after the announcement.And later on Wednesday, Microsoft said in its earnings report that its Teams collaboration suite, which includes video, now has 75 million daily active users, up from over 44 million last month. The spike in usage helped lift Microsoft's revenue in the quarter by 15%, despite a slowdown in licenses from smaller businesses and lower ad spend on LinkedIn.The top video chat providers are all seeing a surge in demand with so many people working from home and uncertain about when they'll leave because of the Covid-19 crisis. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella began his earnings call by talking about the new "world of remote everything" and Microsoft's role in help powering it. While Zoom is singularly focused on video, Microsoft and Google are massive tech conglomerates with the ability to lose money in certain areas — like video — if it means picking up market share. Zoom would rather not fund its rivals' cloud businesses, which have been growing rapidly as large enterprises move away from traditional data centers.That's where Oracle comes into play. Oracle has been touting its cloud infrastructure in recent years, though it remains in the category of "somewhat niche players," according to Synergy Research Group, and rarely wins a marquee deal in the cloud market. So it was unexpected on Tuesday to see a press release from Oracle, saying that Zoom had chosen its cloud "for its advantages in performance, scalability, reliability and superior cloud security."VIDEO13:0513:05How Zoom rose to the top during social distancingTechUnexpected — until you consider that Oracle doesn't compete with Zoom.For cloud, Zoom has long been reliant on Amazon Web Services, while also handling a lot of capacity from its own data centers. The company admits its infrastructure wasn't prepared for a global pandemic that would send millions of office workers and students home almost overnight, with Zoom as the primary way they would be staying in touch with co-workers, friends and family members. The number of daily meeting participants jumped from a high of 10 million in December to more than 300 million this month.In a webinar for users on Wednesday, Zoom CEO Eric Yuan said that Oracle, which has been "a great customer," wanted to offer additional support on top of what Zoom was getting from AWS. Zoom tested out Oracle's service and "it worked so well," Yuan said, that Zoom added the Oracle's servers to the mix. Yuan said that the combination of Zoom's data centers, many thousands of servers from Amazon and Oracle's infrastructure "together serve all that unprecedented traffic." Brendan Ittelson, Zoom's technology chief, noted that the company does use some technology from Microsoft Azure.In an emailed statement to CNBC, Zoom reiterated that point:"We've seen exponential growth the past couple months — going from 10 million to 300 million daily participants — requiring quick and efficient scale to our infrastructure. Oracle Cloud Infrastructure was able to jump in and help us scale quickly, adding to our mix of providers which had already included AWS and our own data centers."To be sure, Zoom would only pick Oracle for such critical work if it had confidence that the technology was up to the task. But Zoom also knows that, at a time when Microsoft and Google have emerged as two of the tech superpowers, Oracle is the one that's not coming for its bottom line.WATCH: Timothy Horan on how Microsoft has weathered Covid-19VIDEO3:4303:43Timothy Horan: Microsoft little impacted by Covid-19 due to cloud strategyClosing Bell

2020/06/11, Brad Smith, president of Microsoft, right, speaks as Christopher Eisgruber, president of Princeton University, left, and Princeton Graduate Maria De La Cruz Perales Sanchez listen during a news conference outside the Supreme Court in Washington, D.C. on Nov. 12, 2019.Al Drago | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesFollowing the lead of IBM and Amazon, Microsoft said Thursday that it has no current plans to sell facial recognition technology for police use, a sign that technology companies are getting more involved in the national debate on police reform.In a conversation streamed online with The Washington Post's David Ignatius, Microsoft President Brad Smith said the company doesn't currently sell its technology to police departments in the U.S. and has decided that it won't until a national law is in place, "grounded in human rights," that governs its use. Smith's comments come a day after Amazon said it has put a one-year moratorium on the use of its facial recognition software, called Rekognition, by police departments, and three days after IBM said it was exiting the business. While Smith condones his tech counterparts for their actions, he stressed the importance of Congress pushing to make sure that bad actors aren't able to fill the void and promote their own version of the technology."I think It's important to see what IBM has done. I think it is important to recognize what Amazon has done. It is obviously similar to what we are doing," Smith said. "But if all the responsible companies in the country cede this market to those that are not prepared to take a stand, we won't necessarily serve the national interest or the lives of the black and African American people of this nation well. We need Congress to act, not just tech companies alone. That is the only way that we will guarantee that we will protect the lives of people."While facial recognition software has been a controversial subject in the recent past, its significance has increased since the death in late May of George Floyd after a Minneapolis police officer knelt on his neck for more than eight minutes. The incident, caught on video for the world to see, sparked nationwide protests and calls for dramatic police reform in cities across the country.The House Committee on Oversight and Reform has held a number of hearings on the use of facial recognition technology, but has yet to introduce a bill regulating it. Rep. Jimmy Gomez, D-Calif., who serves on the committee told CNBC in a phone interview on Wednesday that he's hopeful Congress will pass a bill this year. Microsoft promotes facial recognition technology as part of its Azure cloud computing business. The website says developers can "embed facial recognition into your apps for a seamless and highly secured user experience." Uber uses it to "help ensure driver using the app matches the account on file."Smith said Thursday that Microsoft has been focused on the issue of how the software is used for two years. "We've been taking a principled stand in advocating not only for ourselves, but the tech sector and, under the law, a principled stand for the country and the world," he said.A Microsoft spokesperson said in a statement that the company is "also taking this opportunity to further strengthen our review processes for any customer seeking to use this technology at scale."WATCH: Amazon halts police use of facial recognition software for one yearVIDEO0:4300:43Amazon halts police use of facial recognition software for one yearSquawk Box

2020/07/25, Satya Nadella, CEO of MicrosoftCNBCThis earnings season investors have to balance spiking coronavirus levels against encouraging vaccine progress, rising unemployment and China trade tensions. That's on the macro level. On the micro level, some stocks look set to gain from current work-from-home trends, while for others, coronavirus-related disruptions spell disaster.In this unprecedented time, it makes sense to follow the stock picks of analysts with a proven track record of success.We used TipRanks analyst forecasting service to pinpoint Wall Street's best-performing analysts. These are the analysts with the highest success rate and average return measured on a one-year basis- and factoring in the number of ratings made by each analyst.Here are the best-performing analysts' six favorite stocks:ProofpointRBC Capital analyst Matthew Hedberg advises keeping a close eye on cybersecurity stock Proofpoint. He has a buy rating on the stock and a $146 price target, a 19% upside potential."While there is Covid uncertainty in the 2H/20, we believe Proofpoint should be a long-term beneficiary of trends for people- centric security with increased levels of distributed workers" the analyst explained on July 21.Based on checks, he believes Proofpoint should report solid second quarter results at the high-end of guidance on its July 30 earnings date. "We remain confident in trends of returning to +20% growth" Hedberg wrote.What's more, 2021 should be a better year "given the SYMC replacement cycle, product bundles, normalized CapEx, easy comps and a long-term benefit from distributed employees as companies are seeing new attacks targeting Covid disruption."In ProofPoint's favor is a strong and evolving product portfolio, a growing, diverse customer base for cross and up-sell opportunities, and a solid growth profile that should drive significant margin expansion through break-even and beyond.Hedberg's 79% success rate and 27% average return per rating earn him a stellar Top 10 ranking on TipRanks.EtsyOnline marketplace Etsy is gearing up to report its second quarter earnings on Aug. 5. Heading into the print, Stifel Nicolaus analyst Scott Devitt has reiterated his support for the stock. That's with a buy rating and new $116 stock price forecast, up from $86 previously. Shares have more than doubled year-to-date, but Devitt's price target indicates further upside potential lies ahead."Consolidated GMS [gross merchandise sales] growth exceeded 130% year-over-year in April, and we expect growth remained meaningfully above pre-Covid levels through 2Q as the company continues to benefit from the sale of face masks and the broader pandemic-related shift to eCommerce" the analyst explained on July 22.Indeed, third-party data and commentary from other eCommerce platforms indicate that trends supporting online shopping have remained largely in place, says Devitt, as coronavirus case numbers in the U.S. re-accelerate and health concerns drive consumes to e-commerce instead of traditional retail.The analyst also raised his second quarter and long-term estimates citing "the growing opportunity for Etsy to retain new and lapsed customers brought to the platform as a result of the pandemic."According to TipRanks, Devitt scores an impressive 70% success rate and 25% average return per recommendation.Johnson & JohnsonHealth-care giant Johnson & Johnson has just received the thumbs up from top Bank of America analyst Bob Hopkins. He reiterated his buy rating and $175 stock price forecast, with 17% upside potential, on July 20 after the company reported a beat-and-raise second quarter.Overall, earnings topped Street expectations driven mainly by a notably robust performance in the medical devices segment — $4.29 billion compared to a $3.43 billion consensus estimate — while the pharma segment fell in-line with expectations and consumer fell slightly below — $3.3 billion compared to a $3.54 consensus estimate."JNJ's Q2 call confirmed what most believed heading into Q2 – that JNJ's [Covid-19] vaccine is on track and that JNJ's fundamentals remain very strong in an uncertain environment" cheered Hopkins. Currently the company is aiming to deliver over 1 billion doses of its coronavirus vaccine by the end of 2021. For the coming quarters management struck a cautiously optimistic tone, noting that many procedures are already approaching pre-coronavirus levels. The company now expects a third-quarter decline of 10% to 25%, up from its April estimate of negative 15% to 35%. As a result, Hopkins ramped up his 2020-2022 earnings per share estimates for Johnson & Johnson to $7.82, $9.09 and $9.73 from $7.72, $9.06 and $9.69."We continue to like the risk reward in JNJ. While visibility remains low with litigation, Covid's impact on the economy could well bring names like JNJ back into favor and goodwill from a successful vaccine could limit drug pricing risk" the analyst concluded.MicrosoftFive-star Wedbush analyst Daniel Ives has a buy rating and Street-high price target of $260 on Microsoft, suggesting further upside potential of over 25%. Ives made the bullish call on July 22 following Microsoft's June results with headline numbers that came in above Street expectations.Total revenues came in at $38 billion, up 13% year-over-year, compared to the Street at $36.5 billion. Non-GAAP earnings per share of $1.46 easily beat the Street's $1.34 estimate with operating margins of 35.3% versus Street estimates at 35.6%."Cloud continuing to rock & roll," exclaimed Ives, noting that "this current remote work from home (WFH) environment is further catalyzing more enterprises to make the strategic cloud shift with Microsoft the main beneficiary as evidenced by the solid results."According to the analyst, while Microsoft has roughly a third of its revenue exposed to PCs and supply chain, the vast majority of its revenue and 80% to 90% of its valuation  is based on its flagship Azure, Office 365, and core enterprise driven franchise.And that's good news because Ives believes that this cloud shift and work-from-home dynamic is here to stay. With 33% of workloads in the cloud today poised to hit 55% by 2022, he calculates that the work-from-home shift could clearly accelerate the cloud trend by roughly a year. "In a nutshell, Nadella & Co. continue to lead a transformational cloud story narrowing the gap vs. Bezos and AWS into 2021"  Ives said.The analyst is ranked at No. 211 out of 6,813 analysts covered by TipRanks thanks to his strong stock picking skills.AMDRBC Capital's Mitch Steves has just boosted his stock price forecast on semiconductor stock AMD to a Street-high of $71 up from $66 previously, and he highlighted the potential for AMD to move even higher. "We wouldn't be surprised to see the $70 market eclipsed over the next 3-4 months in a bull case scenario but see $71 as more of a base case" the analyst told investors on July 23.He cited the company's upcoming earnings report as a positive catalyst, writing "we think PCs and Servers could surprise to the upside relative to Street expectations."Notably, for 2021 he also remains Street-high at $10.7 billion compared to the Street at $10.2 billion adding that the 15 or so hold/sell recommendations on the stock are likely dragging down the average estimates considerably.For his part, Steves continues to like AMD into earnings, given the company's: 1) likely $400 million in server revenue in the second quarter; 2) clear demand for graphics processing units, or GPUs, as gamers continue to grow in a work from home environment; 3) positive results at Texas Instruments indicating personal electronics upside due to work from home initiatives; and 4) significant revenue growth and margin expansion potential over the next two to three years.This Top 100 analyst boasts a 75% success rate and 27% average return per recommendation.Dick's Sporting GoodsIn June, Oppenheimer analyst Brian Nagel upgraded Dick's Sporting Goods from hold to buy, citing the retailer's discounted valuation and prospects to capitalize on a spending shift towards sports-related products during the pandemic.Now with earnings fast approaching, the analyst has reaffirmed his positive take on the stock, with a buy rating and $52 stock price forecast. From current levels, this translates into upside potential of over 15%."Recent data clearly suggest strengthening trends in demand for sporting goods, which we believe could portend meaningful upside in Q2 (Jul.) trends at DKS," the analyst wrote on July 23. He pointed out that shares of Dick's have bounced from recent lows, but continue to lag peer equities and broader indices.According to Nagel, Dick's current valuation under-appreciates its potential for improving near-term fundamentals- despite a slightly more challenging longer-term story."While we remain concerned with longer-term potential for direct-to-consumer (DTC) offerings at leading brands to, in part, undermine Dick's Sporting Goods as a distribution mechanism, we are increasingly optimistic, nearer-term, that DKS is well positioned to capitalize upon changing, if not strengthening, demand trends in sporting goods" the analyst concluded.Nagel is currently tracking a 75% success rate and 21% average return per rating, placing him at No. 34 out of over 6,800 analysts ranked by TipRanks.       

2020/05/19, In this articleMSFTMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella gestures as he speaks during a Bloomberg event on the opening day of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on Jan. 21, 2020.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is targeting the health-care sector with a new Cloud for Health Care bundle — a customized solution incorporating existing products like the Azure cloud and the Teams communication app for businesses.The move shows that Microsoft intends to deliver more growth in Azure as it competes with Amazon: by tailoring its wares to the needs specific industries. In 2017, the company announced an initiative to focus on health care and five other industries, such as manufacturing and retail. It added media, communications and automotive last yearIndustry customizations are already available in Dynamics 365 and Power Platform products, like a patient portal. Now Microsoft is keen to ensure they work together to provide the best possible experience for customers.Microsoft Cloud for Healthcare is available to customers in public preview with a six-month free trial, Microsoft corporate vice presidents Tom McGuinness and Greg Moore said in a blog post Tuesday. It was not immediately clear how pricing for the bundle will differ from the standard fee for individual products in the bundle. Microsoft will provide more details in the fall, a spokesperson told CNBC in an email.Azure derives a greater portion of its revenue from large enterprises than market leader Amazon Web Services, RBC analysts led by Alex Zukin said in a note to clients on Sunday. Go-to product collections for various industries could yield more widespread enterprise adoption. Azure revenue growth slowed to 59% in the first quarter from 62% one quarter earlier, although it continues to grow faster than other parts of the company. Microsoft does not specify Azure revenue in dollars.Google's cloud organization is also targeting health care and other individual industries, and Salesforce offers a Health Cloud.Microsoft offloaded health assets in 2012 with the formation of Caradigm, a joint venture with GE. Microsoft said last week it's working with UnitedHealthCare to bring out an Azure-powered app that can help companies in their efforts to return their employees to offices.WATCH: FedEx announces strategic partnership with MicrosoftVIDEO3:5103:51FedEx announces strategic partnership with MicrosoftSquawk on the Street

2020/03/13, VIDEO4:0504:05Bill Gates steps down from Microsoft boardFast MoneyMicrosoft announced on Friday that Bill Gates is leaving the board, effective Friday. Gates is also stepping down from his position on the board of Berkshire Hathaway."I have made the decision to step down from both of the public boards on which I serve – Microsoft and Berkshire Hathaway – to dedicate more time to philanthropic priorities including global health and development, education, and my increasing engagement in tackling climate change," Gates said on LinkedIn. "The leadership at the Berkshire companies and Microsoft has never been stronger, so the time is right to take this step.""With respect to Microsoft, stepping down from the board in no way means stepping away from the company," Gates said. "Microsoft will always be an important part of my life's work and I will continue to be engaged with Satya and the technical leadership to help shape the vision and achieve the company's ambitious goals. I feel more optimistic than ever about the progress the company is making and how it can continue to benefit the world."Gates co-founded Microsoft in 1975 with Paul Allen, who died in 2018. Gates was CEO until 2000 when Steve Ballmer took over the role. Microsoft's current CEO, Satya Nadella, took over in 2014. Gates was director of the board at Microsoft until 2014 but began dedicating more of his time to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2008.VIDEO2:1302:13Gates steps down from Microsoft: 3 tradesFast MoneyGates is among Microsoft's top shareholders. He owns 1.36% of shares, according to FactSet. The company went public in 1986 and is now one of the most highly valued companies in the world with a market cap of $1.21 trillion."It's been a tremendous honor and privilege to have worked with and learned from Bill over the years," said Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella."Bill founded our company with a belief in the democratizing force of software and a passion to solve society's most pressing challenges. And Microsoft and the world are better for it. The board has benefited from Bill's leadership and vision. And Microsoft will continue to benefit from Bill's ongoing technical passion and advice to drive our products and services forward. I am grateful for Bill's friendship and look forward to continuing to work alongside him to realize our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more."

2020/04/21, In this articleMSFTTom McGuinness, a former GE healthcare exec, is joining Microsoft.MicrosoftMicrosoft is hiring a new corporate vice president for its growing health-care vertical in the midst of the global coronavirus pandemic. The company is bringing on Tom McGuinness as its corporate vice president of health to run its relationships with the health-care industry. Prior to joining Microsoft, McGuinness was the president and CEO of GE Healthcare's $10 billion imaging business.  Microsoft has been significantly expanding its health-care vertical, as the sector represents a major growth opportunity for its cloud offerings, such as Azure. The company brought on Google Cloud's Greg Moore in April 2019 and Samsung's chief medical officer, David Rhew, last August. In March, Microsoft's top health-care executive, Peter Lee, was promoted to lead Microsoft Research, suggesting the importance of health to the company's long-term plans. McGuinness has been on-boarding in his new role for a few weeks, but the company officially announced his hire on Tuesday. The company said that he'll be working across its customers, including the large hospitals, health insurers and life sciences companies. Some of Azure's largest customers in health care include Novartis, Walgreens and Humana. The major cloud providers have been competing for the business of health-care companies in recent years, as these stakeholders begin to move to the cloud. Microsoft's strategy has been to offer its services as a partner, and the company repeatedly stresses that it will not compete.Now, it says, it's seeing increased demand for its services, including the use of its cloud as health-care companies look for ways to engage with their patients remotely. The company recently developed a so-called "plasmabot" to recruit those who have recently recovered from the virus to donate their plasma. "The job is so difficult for health-care professionals," said Deb Cupp, the company's vice president of enterprise and commercial industries, by phone. "So the timing couldn't be better for this hire, and he'll be diving in right away to orient us around what we can do to help." Cupp said that Microsoft from  "Satya [Nadella, its CEO] down" has been prioritizing work to help the Covid-19 response. "It's really been all hands on deck," she said.Microsoft has about 100 corporate vice presidents spanning a range of teams, according to a LinkedIn search.VIDEO9:4709:47Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusSquawk Box

2020/05/15, UnitedHealth Group and Microsoft's ProtectWell coronavirus symptom screenerUnitedHealth Group and MicrosoftUnitedHealth Group and Microsoft are offering companies a coronavirus screening app called ProtectWell that provides a daily symptom screener to help clear employees to go to work or direct them to be tested if they are at risk for infection.As U.S. companies struggle to bring employees back under stringent new safety requirements, health-care and tech companies are rolling out new services that go beyond temperature checks. The apps are designed to help protect the safety of employees returning to work as well as to entice customers to return to restaurants and stores by ensuring wait staff and clerks are infection-free.Microsoft and UnitedHealth, which use the program for their own workers, are now offering the service to U.S. employers free of charge. The program will include resources and guidelines on Covid-19 testing schedules for different workers within an organization, based on their potential on-the-job exposure to the virus."A worker in a nursing home, for example, … we would want to be doing the symptom checking every single day, and then be put into a testing schedule that allows them to get tested, anywhere from three to… every five days," said Ken Ehlert, UnitedHealth Group chief scientific officer. "Different folks in the population need different levels of testing."The ProtectWell app provides the worker with his or her test results and notifies the employer when a worker tests positive for the coronavirus."When we think about the broader perspective of enabling a safe return to work, it's imperative that employers also have that ability to be able to … act on that information, so that they can ensure that the workplace is safe" said Dr. David Rhew, Microsoft chief global medical officer. The app will not provide tracking and contact tracing information, and while Microsoft's health-care bot will drive the symptom screening within the app, UnitedHealth will maintain control over the health data itself. Under occupational health and safety rules, workers' personal health information needs to be kept separate from personnel records."The challenge is about data management — how we aggregate testing information, safely permission it to reach the right people, use it to make workplace decisions," said Dr. Rajaie Batniji, co-founder of benefits firm Collective Health, which launched its own Covid back-to-work service this week.Testing reliabilityBatniji says a testing program, when combined with social distancing and disinfecting practices, can help businesses lower the risk of a workplace outbreak to less than 5%.The firm's Collective Go service is partnering with Bay Area start-ups Genalyte, Color and Everlywell to provide employers with on-site and at-home molecular testing for current infections, as well as antibody tests that can show whether a person was previously infected."We're seeing improvement … with regard to accuracy and scalability" of the antibody tests, said Batniji, but he adds that the firm is continually assessing the latest data on the reliability of various Covid-19 tests.On Thursday ,the Food and Drug Administration raised concerns about the accuracy of Abbott Labs' ID Now rapid Covid-19 tests, after a study from New York University suggested that the test resulted in a high number of false negatives.FDA issues warning on accuracy of Abbott's rapid coronavirus test after study finds false negativesUnitedHealth's Ehlert notes that availability could also be an issue for some employers to adopt wide-scale testing, so it will be important to prioritize testing programs for workers who are most at risk of getting sick."We are working within the capacity of trying to get the best tests available, make sure we have enough of them, and prioritize them," he said.Race to provide testing  With the sharp drop in nonemergency diagnostic screening and testing due to the pandemic, new workplace programs could provide a much-needed boost to diagnostic testing firms and hospitals as they try rebound from the financial disruption caused by delayed procedures over the last two months.New Orleans-based Ochsner Health System set up its own lab for processing Covid testing for its patients and staff and is now working with area employers to help them establish testing and health monitoring programs. CEO Warner Thomas says the return-to-work service will allow the hospital to redeploy clinicians who have been idled, while postponed elective surgery and other procedures are beginning to be rescheduled.Quest Diagnostics CEO Stephen Rusckowski told analysts last month that reopening presents "substantial opportunities" for providing to testing for employers and municipalities "for overall surveillance within the population and returning to work."LabCorp CEO Adam Schechter told CNBC that different parts of the economy will require varying levels of testing to bring workers back and has been in talks with employers to provide on and off-site screening for workers, including temperature checks.LabCorp CEO says the US doesn't need 2 million coronavirus tests per day to reopenIt's unclear just how much employers will actually lean into widespread workforce coronavirus testing, but for many American workers it could become a job requirement while the threat of the pandemic remains, which could be for the foreseeable future."As a doctor, if I wasn't up to date on necessary vaccinations or screening, it's considered a safety issue for patients and co-workers," said Batniji. "This is a first for many (and) a cultural change for most Americans."  Correction: This story has been revised to correct the attribution of a quotation from a Microsoft official. The quote was from Dr. David Rhew, Microsoft's global chief medical officer. 

2020/02/08, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during a keynote session at the Microsoft Developers Build Conference in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Wednesday, April 29, 2015.David Paul Morris | Getty Images | BloombergTwo decades after it first peaked as the dominant leader of a dazzling bull market, Microsoft is once again Wall Street's indispensable stock.This is not simply about its performance or size, though it has soared to become a rare colossus. Microsoft's 70% gain in the past year has taken its market value to $1.4 trillion (neck-and-neck with Apple for the nation's biggest) and accounts for nearly one-eighth of the S&P 500's 23% rise over that time.In the past 12 months, Microsoft has added $600 billion in market capitalization — equivalent to the company's peak value in high-tech heyday of the late 1990s.Yet Microsoft's primacy and ubiquity in portfolios reflects the way it exemplifies nearly every characteristic that today's market is rewarding richly. Microsoft's rare versatility and rarefied virtues have transformed what was long a slow and staid name into something like the all-purpose core holding of this market moment.Most obviously, software is the strongest secular-growth trend in this economy and the market. Beyond that, enormous companies with entrenched product platforms and durable cash flows riding long-lasting behavior shifts have become an anointed elite on Wall Street. The trillion-dollar market-cap club consists of these alone, with Alphabet and Amazon joining Microsoft and Apple, with Facebook and even the likes of Visa not too far behind.Why 'MSFT' is workingYou say you want to play the emerging cloud-services quasi-duopoly without having to worry about what it costs Amazon to ship a pair of flip-flops overnight? Microsoft is the stock for you.Interested in high-return businesses and generous distribution of cash through buybacks and dividends? Microsoft enjoys mid-30s percent profit margins, has repeatedly reloaded a $40 billion buyback plan and pays out more than $15 billion a year in dividends. Even after the stock's furious rise, it yields 1.1% and boosts the dividend every year; the current 51-cent quarterly payout is up more than 60% over the past five years.Love tech but are worried about disruptions related to China's coronavirus outbreak? Unlike Apple, Microsoft doesn't have dozens of stores in China, nor any of the important manufacturing centers semiconductor makers rely on. Perhaps this helps explain Microsoft's 8% surge for the week, taking its year-to-date gain to 16%.In an investment industry that carves up the market into thematic exchange-traded funds to reflect a wide set of tastes and tactics, Microsoft is over-represented versus its S&P 500 weight in ETFs pursuing the following categories: mega-cap growth, momentum, low-volatility, quality, dividend-growth and a raft of ESG portfolios. These funds screened for companies meeting environmental, social and governance standards have been intensely popular lately, and Microsoft is a top holding in a huge number of them.Hedge funds love itGoldman Sachs constructs and tracks a wide collection of baskets using S&P 500 stocks that reflect a theme or style or attribute. Microsoft is now the very top holding in its Hedge Fund VIP basket, meaning it is in the top ten holdings of the greatest number of hedge funds. The stock is also a component of the global defensive company, international-sales, consistent profitability and high-liquidity-stock groupings.Like several other mega-cap stocks, Microsoft is also in Goldman's clustering of stocks under-owned by traditional mutual funds. Active fund managers typically won't own a full portion of the largest index stocks, seeking to differentiate their results from a benchmark.Even this works to Microsoft's benefit, given current prevailing money-flow trends into passive index funds. Index fund inflows don't in themselves favor the largest companies; they buy every stock in the index in precise proportion to a stock's index weighting. But it does marginally help stocks that active managers own less of, as money is pulled from those managers and fed into indexes that buy a full helping of each stock.Overvalued?These multiple drivers of investor attention on Microsoft have lifted its valuation to an 18-year high. Its multiple to the next 12 months' forecast earnings now exceeds 30, its highest since early 2002, when the P/E was on its way down from a peak near 60 in late 1999. As the chart shows, it now builds in a hefty premium both to the S&P and the Nasdaq 100 (of which it represents around 10%).Still, those earnings are almost all free cash flow, and in this market a dominant growth company valued at around a 3% forward free-cash-flow yield is pretty much the going rate.Given all the boxes Microsoft checks off for investors, it's no surprise the sell-side adores the stock. Of the 34 analysts covering Microsoft, 31 rate it a Buy and none a Sell.'Masterpiece'For sure, the adoration has something to do with the company's stellar operating performance under CEO Satya Nadella.Dan Ives of Wedbush Securities captured the prevailing Street take on the company's latest results: "In 20 years of covering Microsoft we have seen a lot of good quarters, but last night was a masterpiece that in our opinion might have been Redmond's best performance we have seen and one for the earnings history book."The obvious question is whether the acclaim for Microsoft has become a bit extreme and uncomfortably unanimous. Are too many investors crowding into this one massive obvious leader, mistaking blind momentum-chasing for paying up to own the best?It's far from clear. On a technical basis, the stock Friday was a whopping 29% above its 200-day moving average – its widest such spread to the longer-term trend since December 2009. From that point, says Wolfe Research technical strategist John Roque, the stock "essentially went sideways into late 2013" before strongly breaking higher.In other words, the stock appears stretched, but has for some time. The price likely can't maintain anything like this current trajectory, unless we're on the cusp of a truly ebullient acceleration phase for Big Tech.Microsoft is widely beloved and tightly embraced, but for substantive reasons. If nothing else, this something-for-everyone stock is the perfect gauge of whether the current priorities and preoccupations of investors might begin to waver and shift.

2020/06/19, (This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only). The boom in spending on cloud has been a major boost to shares of Amazon and Microsoft in recent years, but JPMorgan said in a new note that another tech giant is joining the party. The bank surveyed executives at more than 100 companies, controlling $88 billion in information technology spending, and found that Amazon Web Services is set to lose ground in one segment over the next three years.

2020/07/17, VIDEO1:1001:10News Update – Pre-MarketsNews BriefingTake a look at some of the biggest movers in the premarket:Netflix (NFLX) – The video streaming service saw its bottom line fall 22 cents a share below Wall Street forecasts with quarterly profit of $1.59 per share. Revenue and subscriber additions were above estimates. Projected subscriber additions for the current quarter of 2.5 million are well below the consensus estimate of 5.27 million.BlackRock (BLK) – The asset management firm reported quarterly profit of $7.85 per share, beating the consensus estimate of $6.99 a share. Revenue also topped forecasts. Profit was up 21% from a year ago, with the firm seeing a 7% increase in assets under management.Regions Financial (RF) – The bank reported a quarterly loss of 25 cents per share, compared to analysts' forecasts of a 5 cents per share profit. Revenue was above estimates. The loss was prompted by a larger-than-expected increase in the company's reserve for credit losses.Microsoft (MSFT) – The company said it had trimmed its workforce across multiple functions and locations, although it did not elaborate on how many or which jobs it had cut. Business Insider earlier reported that under 1,000 jobs were cut at Microsoft.United Airlines (UAL) – The airline reached an agreement with its pilots union designed to reduce the number of involuntary furloughs. Pilots aged 62 and older will have the option of an early retirement deal, and all pilots will be able to voluntarily reduce hours or take a leave of absence without losing health benefits.Twitter (TWTR) – Twitter said about 130 accounts were targeted during this week's security incident, including those of prominent individuals like former President Obama, Bill Gates, former Vice President Joe Biden, and Tesla CEO Elon Musk.Lyft (LYFT) – The ride-hailing service plans to distribute about 60,000 vehicle partition shields to its most active drivers, to protect against the possible spread of the coronavirus. It also plans to begin selling the custom-made barriers to other drivers later this summer.JB Hunt Transport (JBHT) – The transportation company reported quarterly earnings of $1.14 per share, well above the consensus estimate of 80 cents a share. Revenue also exceeded expectations. Following the release of those results, Deutsche Bank upgraded the stock to "hold" from "sell."Principia Biopharma (PRNB) – French drugmaker Sanofi (SNY) is said to be targeting biotech-related acquisitions in the U.S., according to a Bloomberg report. Principia, which already has a partnership with Sanofi, is said to be one of the possible targets.PPG Industries (PPG) – The producer of paints and coatings reported quarterly earnings of 98 cents per share, well above the consensus estimate of 71 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts, helped by an increase in do-it-yourself painting projects by people remaining at home during shelter-in-place orders.Carnival (CCL), Norwegian Cruise Line (NCLH), Royal Caribbean (RCL) – The volatile cruise line stocks remain on watch today, after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention extended a no-sail order for the industry through the end of September. The order was first put in place in March, and was due to expire on July 24.Lending Tree (TREE) – The online lender raised its revenue outlook, with refinancing demand increasing sharply as mortgage rates hit record lows.

2020/05/27, In this articleMSFTMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks during a panel session at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on Jan. 17, 2017.Jason Alden | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is starting to release the latest twice-annual update to Windows 10, featuring enhancements to the longstanding Notepad app and a way to find your cursor in a sea of text. Windows is the world's most popular PC operating system, and more than a billion devices are actively running Windows 10, which debuted in 2015. Last year Microsoft shifted to a cycle of a major update in the spring and a minor update in the fall, rather than a major update in each of those seasons each year. Microsoft has been testing different versions of the Windows update with a small pool of users for the past several months and is now ready to provide it to the full base.Here are some of the more significant changes in the Windows 10 May 2020 update, aka the 20H1 update and version 2004: The Cortana virtual assistant can now create calendar events, send emails and bring up email messages from specific people.Microsoft is delivering the second version of the Windows Subsystem for Linux, which will execute command-line instructions faster. The emoji picker, which can be accessed by holding down the Windows key and hitting the period key, now features additional kaomojis, or icons assembled using a string of characters, like the shruggie.It's now possible to customize the names of virtual desktops, rather than using default names like "Desktop 1" and "Desktop 2."A new cloud download option for resetting a PC is available.The Task Manager app will display the temperature of dedicated graphics cards and specify the types of storage on your PC.In Notepad, the title bar will show an asterisk if there are unsaved changes in your file, new keyboard shortcuts are available and if text is highlighted, the find/replace function will automatically place it in the text box.A new setting of the Calculator app lets you always keep it on top, above other windows. A text cursor indicator, which can be enabled in Settings, allows for the adjustment of the size and color of the cursor.  Dictation through speech is available in more languages, including French, German, Italian and Spanish.Windows 10 users can check to see if the new version is available for download by visiting the Windows Update section of the Settings app and clicking the "Check for updates" button.WATCH: Microsoft launches several new products to take on AppleVIDEO1:4101:41Microsoft launches several new products to take on AppleNews Videos

2020/07/16, Microsoft Project xCloud will let people stream games to mobile devices, too.MicrosoftMicrosoft will launch its game streaming service Project xCloud publicly in September, marking a further push for the company into cloud gaming.Phil Spencer, the head of Microsoft's Xbox unit, said Thursday that xCloud would be launched for free to customers of its Xbox Game Pass subscription service, which gives players access to a select catalog of games."We're bringing Xbox Game Pass and Project xCloud together at no additional cost for Xbox Game Pass Ultimate members," Spencer said in a blog post. "With cloud gaming in Game Pass Ultimate, you will be able to play over 100 Xbox Game Pass titles on your phone or tablet."It's effectively a commercial launch for the xCloud service, which allows gamers to hop into a game using their phone or tablet while the game is run on remote servers. You currently have to register to get invited to a "preview" version of the service to play."Integrating the offer into Xbox Game Pass Ultimate fully commercialises the technology and gives people using it the ability to game with the almost 100 million Xbox Live community of users across console,  PC and mobile," said Piers Harding-Rolls, the research director of games at analytics firm Ampere Analysis.VIDEO0:0100:01Xbox head Phil Spencer on the surge in demand for Xbox LiveSquawk Alley"The fact the feature is free means that usage of the technology is likely to be widespread across the subscriber base and will give many the first taste of this distribution technology, its advantages, and its limitations."The news also comes ahead of the launch of Microsoft's upcoming Xbox Series X console, which will be the successor to the Xbox One. The company is currently battling with Sony to convince gamers to buy the device over its Japanese rival's upcoming PlayStation 5 machine.Competition in the nascent cloud gaming space has intensified with companies from Google to Nvidia launching their own respective streaming platforms. Google entered the market with its Stadia game streaming service, but the product was met with mixed reviews. Meanwhile, Nvidia's GeForce platform has run into some trouble with developers, with Activision Blizzard pulling all its games from the service in February.Sony also has a game subscription service, called PlayStation Now, which lets players access several PlayStation games across the PlayStation 4 and PC. Nintendo on the other hand, while not yet involved in cloud gaming, has upped its focus on mobile gaming with its Switch console and smartphone-based titles such as "Mario Kart Tour."

2020/02/14, Sam Kaufmann, CEO of Random Salad GamesRandom Salad GamesSam Kaufmann is on somewhat of a digital island. His company, Random Salad Games, is the largest ad-supported app developer on Microsoft Windows, which has become an afterthought in the mobile market now dominated by Apple and Google.It's still a nice business for Kaufmann. He says annual revenue is in the seven figures, enough to pay his handful of developers. Random Salad's most popular title is "Simple Solitaire." The company has about 20 other casual games, including "Simple Mahjong," "Hearts Deluxe" and "Dice King," mostly played by people who are bored at work on their PCs or perhaps at home tooling around on their Surface tablets.So when Microsoft announced in a short blog post last month that it was shutting down its service that lets developers make money through ads, nobody was more at risk than Kaufmann. Fortunately, he had a sense based on the performance and quality of the ads, that such a move was coming and had been preparing for it for months.Rather than just letting his nine-year-old business wither away, Kaufmann started building his own software development kit (SDK) that could tap into the same type of programmatic ad networks Microsoft had been using. It let him keep his games populated with money-making banner promotions. He's calling the product Pubfinity and, while it's currently just being used for Random Salad's games, he plans to soon roll it out to other developers.VIDEO0:5100:51New Windows 10 PCs will run on Qualcomm chips, but Intel investors shouldn't worry just yetNews Videos"My immediate need was to monetize my own apps," said Kaufmann, who's based in Philadelphia. "The ultimate goal is to position Pubfinity as a replacement for the Microsoft SDK going away."In Microsoft's march to a trillion dollar market cap and CEO Satya Nadella's transformation of the company into a cloud powerhouse, not every strategic effort has worked. Microsoft is way behind Amazon and Google in voice-powered computing, for example, and has struggled to cut into Salesforce's massive lead in customer relationship management software, despite spending $27 billion on LinkedIn in 2016.But no failure has been as glaring as mobile, where Microsoft had grand plans for a smartphone operating system as part of the Windows 10 release in 2015. At its launch event for Windows 10 devices in October of that year, Nadella told an audience in New York that "we're building the most productive phone on the planet." Panos Panay, who at the time was vice president of the devices group, described "the power of putting Windows in your pocket."Opportunity lostFor developers like Kaufmann, who live and breathe Windows, this appeared to be the opportunity to reach a broader audience with their mobile-friendly apps. Random Salad has some titles on Android but doesn't even try to compete on the sprawling iOS marketplace, where millions of developers duke it out for downloads. Kaufmann counts on Microsoft for substantially all of his company's revenue.But despite its hefty investment and marketing push, Microsoft could never crack the Apple-Google duopoly. In January 2019, the company said it would no longer support Windows Mobile and advised customers to switch to an iPhone or Android device.Panos Panay, Microsoft's chief product officer, holds up the new Surface Duo.From there, Kaufmann started getting the sense that Microsoft was losing its appetite for helping out ad-supported games across other Windows devices. There were spammy ads, and black hat actors were taking advantage of their ability to infiltrate the system and make a cheap buck. Kaufmann said it became clear that Microsoft, which wasn't taking much, if any, revenue from the ads, viewed the effort as more of a hassle than it was worth.In its blog post on Jan. 31, Microsoft said it will shut down the monetization platform starting June 1, and will pay out developer earnings on a regular schedule until then.A Microsoft spokesperson declined to make an executive available for an interview. In an emailed statement, the company said, "We're always looking for ways to evolve the business for the long term and this is a case where we saw a chance to let partners and the market step in and provide better support for in-game and in-app Ad solutions."In trying to fill the void, Kaufmann has had to redirect the focus of his development team toward a market that was entirely new for him: ad-tech. He spent months talking to advertisers, researching best practices and trying to figure out what Microsoft got right and what went wrong. He also had to contend with Europe's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), privacy legislation that went into effect in 2018, giving consumers more control over their digital data."It was a huge undertaking for me," Kaufmann said.Pubfinity is open for business for other apps, Kaufmann said, but he only plans to work with a few high-quality developers until the network is ready for a broader rollout. Kaufmann said the business model is in the works but will be designed to ensure that the products can reach as many developers as possible.One potential partner is Fons Sonnemans, a developer based in the Netherlands. His company, Reflection IT, has spent almost a decade creating Windows-based games, including "Sudoku Free" and "Hearts Pro." Sonnemans said he's heard from Pubfinity as well as other Microsoft replacements, like Vungle, about using their networks for his apps."I will try a few with my games and see which one works best and then move my games to the best one," Sonnemans explained. He said it's easy to incorporate new ad tools into the games, but in terms of whether he will be able to make as much money with them as he has in the past, "the proof will be in the eating of the pudding," he said.tweetOnline games are a side business for Sonnemans, whose primary job is in software development training. But he said that his apps provide significant revenue, especially during times of the year when his training business is slow."It's not my only income, but I need that income," Sonnemans said.If Kaufmann can turn Pubfinity into an attractive alternative for Windows developers, Random Salad stands to benefit, because advertisers and users would be less likely to flee. Kaufmann said he's targeting the June shutdown date for making Pubfinity more widely available."We'll have a very strict review process," he said. "We want it to be an improvement and make it a place where developers can make money but not sacrifice the quality of their offerings."WATCH: Jeff Weiner to step down as LinkedIn CEOVIDEO0:4500:45Jeff Weiner to step down as LinkedIn CEOSquawk Alley

2020/04/09, In this articleMSFTSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft, speaks during a Microsoft launch event to introduce the new Microsoft Surface laptop and Windows 10 S operating system, May 2, 2017 in New York City.Getty ImagesMicrosoft won't be coming out with its Surface Neo dual-screened PC in time for the holiday season as originally planned, according to a person familiar with the matter.Several of the company's plans for 2020 have changed as coronavirus has emerged and spread across the globe. In addition to pulling part of its financial guidance, Microsoft has canceled events and put optional non-security Windows updates on hold. Meanwhile, its Teams communication app has surged in popularity.Microsoft has been broadening its Surface hardware line since 2012. The company announced the Neo in October alongside the dual-screen Duo phone running Android. Surface products represented 4.5% of Microsoft's total revenue in the 2019 fiscal year.The Surface Neo runs Windows 10X, a special version of Windows 10 that could run applications across more than one screen. Now Microsoft has paused development of Windows 10X and is focusing on getting it working well on a single screen, said the person familiar with the discussions. ZDNet reported the news earlier on Wednesday.WATCH: Watch CNBC's full interview with Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaVIDEO15:3015:30Watch CNBC's full interview with Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaSquawk Alley

2020/03/26, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella at the Fast Company Innovation Festival in New York on November 7, 2019.Brad Barket | Getty Images for Fast CompanyMicrosoft said Thursday it has agreed to buy Affirmed Networks, a company that specializes in software for mobile carriers. Specifically, Affirmed provides a way for carriers to grow networks to meet increasing demand by drawing on cloud infrastructure.The Acton, Mass.-based company was founded in 2010 and has 552 employees, according to LinkedIn. Terms of the deal weren't disclosed.One investor in the company, John Vrionis of Unusual Ventures, tweeted that it was a "'unicorn' acquisition," implying that Microsoft paid at least $1 billion for the company. However, Vrironis said he was not at liberty to discuss the transaction, and the companies did not respond to inquiries on the price.tweetThe deal could help Microsoft bolster a growing part of the business, the Azure public cloud, which trails behind Amazon Web Services, by offering products that are more appropriate for a specific industry. The move shows Microsoft looking to capitalize on opportunities to grow as network operators roll out fast fifth-generation, or 5G, networks. "Previous generations of wireless networks have been based on purpose-built hardware," Yousef Khalidi, a corporate vice president at Microsoft, wrote in a blog post. "We believe that with innovation in software and by making use of broadly available cloud computing platforms like Microsoft Azure, operators can deploy and maintain 5G networks and services more efficiently, more cost effectively, more rapidly and more securely."Affirmed customers include AT&T, Orange, SoftBank, Telus and Vodafone, according to the company's website.Microsoft and Amazon have both sought to capitalize on 5G. Microsoft announced a major deal with AT&T last year.Investors include Qualcomm Ventures.WATCH: Here's why Microsoft could be worth buyingVIDEO5:1605:16Here's why Microsoft could be worth buyingTrading Nation

2020/02/27, U.S. billionaire Charles Simonyi speaks at a press conference outside Moscow in Star City on April 10, 2009.Dmitry Kostyukov | AFP | Getty Images)Charles Simonyi is a 71-year-old billionaire who has been to space twice. He still goes to work.Simonyi helped Microsoft launch major software products during two decades at the company. He left to build a start-up, which Microsoft acquired nearly three years ago.Now, he's one of the most decorated figures among the 151,000 people Microsoft employs today."I came from work here," Simonyi said at a meetup in Seattle on Wednesday. "And I'm going back to work tomorrow. So I am working. That gives meaning to me. It gives meaning to my existence. And I think I'm working on something where I can contribute a lot, where I have a lot of experience, and I will continue it."He said he's been building an application called Microsoft Whiteboard, a digital version of a whiteboard where several people can draw and write."It's not quite as good as it will be," he said.A fellow audience member at the meetup asked Simonyi how he chooses what to focus on. He talked about the importance of being passionate about a subject and becoming an expert. He brought up his current preoccupation with whiteboards as an example."I know a fair amount, and I'm fairly well prepared, so that's what I'm focusing on," said Simonyi, who is a technical fellow running the Intentional Exploration group at Microsoft, according to his LinkedIn profile. The group is part of the Experiences and Devices organization that includes Word and Excel, and a part of Windows."Is it the most important thing in the world? Probably not. Is it important that we all do the most important thing in the world? I don't know," he said. "I'm sure I'm not good at many other things."VIDEO0:5100:51Billionaire Ray Dalio has two pieces of advice for the average investorInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.Simonyi, a Hungarian immigrant whose net worth is estimated at $3.9 billion, joined Microsoft in 1981, a year before he became a U.S. citizen. He flew on the International Space Station in 2007 and in 2009.At Microsoft, he led the development of two of Microsoft's most popular applications, Word and Excel, both now part of Microsoft's Office software suite, which had 1.2 billion users as of 2016.Before arriving at Microsoft, Simonyi helped build Bravo word processing software at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, the lab known as Xerox PARC that gave birth to the graphical user interface and other technologies.He recognized that a computer revolution was coming, and he was convinced that Xerox would not be the one to make it happen, he said."Don't ask me how. But I had had lots of experience with the environment there, and then I met Bill [Gates], and it clicked," Simonyi said of his decision to join Microsoft.Simonyi left Microsoft in 2002 and founded Intentional Software, a start-up that worked on technology that could help develop new productivity applications. Microsoft bought Intentional for an undisclosed sum in 2017, bringing Simonyi back into the fold.During Wednesday's discussion he briefly touched on intentional programming, a software-development concept that he has espoused for decades and is well-known for. It's a concept he thinks will be used more broadly in the future."I hope the notion of the technologies I mentioned, especially the one where you express your intent declaratively — I think it will have a wider effect, and that certainly would mean I'd like that to be part of my contribution," he said.WATCH: Microsoft's Nadella talks new carbon-negative initiative, AI, privacy and satisfying shareholdersVIDEO2:5702:57Microsoft CEO talks reducing carbon emissions, artificial intelligence, privacyMad Money with Jim Cramer

2020/01/22, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks during a climate initiative event at the tech giant's campus in Redmond, Washington, on Jan. 16, 2020.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft shook up the debate about global warming last week by vowing to make its operations carbon negative — meaning it will take more carbon out of the environment than it emits by 2030, and move rapidly to mop up the equivalent of every bit of carbon it has put into the atmosphere since its founding in 1975.Some of Microsoft's tricks for reducing its carbon emissions are already familiar — using electricity from renewable sources (electricity production accounts for one-third of U.S. carbon emissions, according to the Energy Information Administration), with Microsoft pledging to use 100% renewable electricity by 2025 topping the list. The company is also pursuing energy conservation measures at its buildings and switching to electric vehicles for use on its office campuses. Some of its challenges, like reducing emissions from business travel when there are no good carbon-free alternatives for most air travel, will also seem familiar."There's a lot of discussion about who is going to roll out the strategy next,'' said Erica Belmont, an assistant engineering professor at the University of Wyoming and co-author of an influential 2018 National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine study on how to go beyond conservation, as Microsoft wants to do, to actually removing carbon that's in the air now.That will be the hard part. And it may require a big assist from companies Microsoft sells to, companies it buys products and services from, and any office worker running Windows. Along with offsetting carbon emitted by Microsoft's suppliers, the electricity your computer or phone is using to read this story is a source of energy use that produces many times more carbon than Microsoft itself uses, the company says.New technologies are getting cheaperMicrosoft is counting on everything from planting massive numbers of trees to soak up carbon and using technologies to capture carbon and sequester it in soil — burying it, essentially — to more exotic technologies, like direct air capture, in which arrays of machines take in ambient air, remove the CO2 from it, and use the carbon in chemicals or concrete. Another option is bioenergy produced from carbon capture and storage, or BECCS, which captures and contains carbon contained in plants when they are burned."We know this can be done," said Julio Friedmann, senior research scholar at Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy and a former deputy assistant secretary of energy under President Barack Obama. "All of these technologies are where solar was in 2005 — not cheap, but about to get cheap.''VIDEO2:3902:39Microsoft to become carbon negative by 2030Closing BellMicrosoft also will use what amounts to private-sector carbon taxes, or fees it imposes on its supply-chain partners, and on itself for intracompany transactions, in order to raise the price of activities that use lots of carbon. Internal carbon taxes, now $15 a ton, will begin to be phased in on Microsoft's partners this July, a company spokesperson said.The company's methods for reducing its carbon emissions to near zero are straightforward, and similar to what other businesses and consumers are doing. Its ideas for actually pulling carbon out of the atmosphere are more long-term, and experts are split on which ideas have more potential.There's a demand-side revolution that I hope Microsoft will help exploit. People don't realize that they have also underestimated the options to conserve and mitigate our way out of it.Amory Lovinsco-founder and chairman emeritus of the Rocky Mountain InstituteSwitching to renewable power is the easiest and most common idea. Fellow tech giant Apple has already reached its goal of powering 100% of its operations with green electricity, the company said in its 2019 sustainability report, as Alphabet says it has done for at least two years in a row. Amazon has pledged to reach 100% usage of renewable electricity by 2030.Workers at Microsoft will see some of the changes, like replacement of the buses Microsoft uses to ferry workers around its campuses with electric vehicles, and changes in buildings to make them more energy efficient. The company also said it will be holding regular hackathons where employees can pitch conservation ideas.The push to switch to renewable power sources reflects what's happening across the economy. Including hydroelectricity, renewables now account for almost exactly 20% of U.S. electric power generation, according to the EIA. The percentage is much higher, almost 80% in Microsoft and Amazon's home state of Washington, where the Columbia River and other waterways are abundant sources of hydropower. California got about 32% of its power from renewable sources in 2017, according to state reports, and is committed to reaching 100% by 2045.Amazon, whose package deliveries require more vehicles than Microsoft's business, made headlines last year by ordering 100,000 electric trucks from start-up Rivian, in which it has invested venture capital. It plans to make half of its deliveries carbon-free by 2030. Apple also has focused on making its products use less electricity, according to the company's 2018 sustainability report.Debate over path to carbon negativeWhen it comes to reducing carbon use below net zero, though, the split among experts is between those who think technology is more promising, and more necessary, and some who think natural means like reforestation and soil sequestration will provide the largest part of the answer.Favoring the more holistic approach is Amory Lovins, co-founder and chairman emeritus of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a Colorado-based think tank on environment and energy issues. He argues that BECCS and direct air capture are more expensive than reforestation and soil-sequestration approaches that, combined with deep reductions in carbon usage, will be sufficient to hold global warming below 1.5 degrees and will save trillions of dollars of capital investment by 2050, he said.The key to making a so-called natural systems approach to carbon removal viable is to couple it with sharp reductions in how much carbon is emitted in the first place, Lovins said. He points to a 2018 paper by researchers in the U.K. that predicts a 40% drop in final energy demand from today's levels by 2050, saying such a drop will let the world rely on natural systems rather than machines that suck carbon from ambient air."There's a demand-side revolution that I hope Microsoft will help exploit," Lovins said. "People don't realize that they have also underestimated the options to conserve and mitigate our way out of it.''Microsoft's plan appears to lean more heavily toward new technologies, such as direct air capture, based on a blog post from Microsoft president Brad Smith that noted not all of the technology Microsoft would use is commercially available yet. Direct air capture, according to a 2018 report by the Innovation for Cool Earth Forum, is estimated to cost between $300 and $600 per ton of carbon removed from the atmosphere. This is well above the $100 per ton that experts consider the threshold of commercial viability. Microsoft spokesperson said details haven't been set yet.Rendering of a large scale Carbon Engineering plant. The start-up, backed by Microsoft founder Bill Gates, among others, is working on direct air capture as a solution to carbon emissions and climate change.Carbon EngineeringDirect air capture may also be the only major technology now known that can handle the scale of carbon removal needed to keep the increase in global temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius by the end of the century, let alone the 1.5 degree change that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change considers the preferred target, ICEF said. Globally, temperatures have already risen slightly more than 1 degree from preindustrial levels."One (DAC) does the work of thousands of trees," Friedmann said.The idea is that arrays of machines suck vast quantities of air out of the atmosphere and separate out the carbon, which is either stored underground or used to make products such as fuel, chemicals or cement. Small-scale versions of this technology are well known: It's used in controlled environments to separate carbon dioxide used to make soda beverages fizzy, and astronauts on Apollo 13 improvised a direct-air capture system to lower carbon dioxide levels in their damaged spacecraft after an explosion in 1970.Microsoft's role in this is likely to be to fund and invest in building out DAC plants as costs fall. Its plan includes $1 billion devoted to research into climate technologies, and especially to invest in project debt used to build carbon-removal facilities. This amount is beyond what most companies can easily do, but is a fraction of the company's $166 billion cash position at Sept. 30, or its $125 billion in operating cash flow for the last four quarters. It's also significantly more than the venture capital raised by the three leading start-ups pursuing the technology, according to Crunchbase: New York-based Global Thermostat, Swiss-based Climeworks and the Canadian firm Carbon Engineering, which includes Microsoft founder Bill Gates among its investors.But it's still quite a bit less than the $10 billion set to be raised for research into negative-emission research by climate taxes in Europe by 2022, according to the Global CCS Institute, which studies carbon capture and storage, or CCS.A U.S. carbon tax could raise as much as $180 billion in revenue by 2021, the Tax Policy Center estimated last January. That could be rebated to consumers in the form of lower income taxes, used for green investment, or other purposes such as deficit reduction, the center said in a Dec. 2018 report.Microsoft might increase its own investment some time later but doesn't expect its money to be the decisive blow against climate change. And because direct air capture cleans air that can't easily be traced to one polluter, the technology's use will likely need to be mandated by governments to become widespread."We definitely wanted to invest  to show that it's a priority," the Microsoft spokesperson said. "Whether it grows depends on the technology that's developed. The company understands this is not something we can address alone.''

2020/03/12, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., pauses during a Bloomberg event on the opening day of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, on Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said Thursday that its annual Build developer conference in Seattle, set to run from May 19-21 will be held online instead of in person, a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email. The change was made as the coronavirus continues to spread around the U.S.Build is one of Microsoft's biggest events, where the company announces new technology across various product lines. Microsoft held Build for the first time in 2011. Prior to that, the company brought together thousands of people for its Professional Developer Conference and Mix events. Around 6,000 people were expected to attend last year's Build event."The safety of our community is a top priority. In light of the health safety recommendations for Washington State, we will deliver our annual Microsoft Build event for developers as a digital event, in lieu of an in-person event," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC. "We look forward to bringing together our community of developers in this new virtual format to learn, connect and code together. Stay tuned for more details to come."Washington state, where the conference has been held for the past few years, has been hit particularly hard by the disease, with 31 deaths, more than in all of Japan, according to Johns Hopkins University data. More than 125,000 cases have been logged globally, according to the World Health Organization.Microsoft earlier opted to hold two smaller events online instead of in person: the MVP Summit for handpicked non-employees and the WSLConf for discussing the Windows Subsystem for Linux technology. Facebook and Google also recently decided not to hold in-person developer events this year.There were warnings Build might be restructured.On March 2, Microsoft updated its Build website with a message showing that it was staying on top of health information but had not decided to cancel the event."In light of the global health concerns due to the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), Microsoft is monitoring public health guidance in relation to in-person events," the message said. "At this time, global health authorities have not issued guidance to avoid travel to this location. We are looking carefully at our event calendar as well as our presence at industry events in the coming months. We are not taking decisions lightly, but the health and well-being of our employees, partners, customers and other guests remain our ultimate priority."On March 11, the same day the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus a pandemic, Washington state Gov. Jay Inslee banned gatherings of more than 250 people in three counties, one of which contains Seattle.The Verge reported on the news earlier.WATCH: Microsoft surprises investors by warning it will miss guidance amid outbreakVIDEO1:2101:21Microsoft surprises investors by warning it will miss guidance amid outbreakSquawk Alley

2020/05/08, Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon, pictured on September 13, 2018.Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon on Friday defended its decision to challenge the Pentagon's multibillion-dollar JEDI cloud computing award after Microsoft said the company was trying to "force a do-over to rescue its failed bid."The JEDI, or Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, deal is worth up to $10 billion and has become one of the most tangled contracts for the Department of Defense.Microsoft was awarded the cloud computing contract on Oct. 25. In November, Amazon Web Services, Amazon's cloud computing unit, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims protesting the JEDI decision. The company argues that President Donald Trump's bias against Amazon and its CEO, Jeff Bezos, influenced the Pentagon to give the contract to Microsoft.In a blog post published Friday, Amazon called the Pentagon's JEDI award process "fatally flawed" and lobbed several attacks at Microsoft, saying it's trying to "bully its way to an unjust victory.""Microsoft is doing an awful lot of posturing," wrote Drew Herdener, vice president of worldwide communications at Amazon. "We understand why. Nobody knowledgeable and objective believes they have the better offering. And, this has been further underscored by their spotty operational performance during the Covid-19 crisis (and in 2020 YTD)."Last month, the Pentagon's inspector general released a report saying that the award did not appear to be influenced by the White House.However, the inspector general noted in the 313-page report that it had limited cooperation from White House officials throughout its review and, as a result, it could not complete its assessment of allegations of ethical misconduct. In a statement to CNBC, Department of Defense spokesman U.S. Air Force Lt. Col. Robert Carver, said the Pentagon "continues to execute the procedures outlined in the Motion for Voluntary Remand granted last month with the intent of delivering this critically-needed capability to our warfighters as quickly as possible."Earlier this week, AWS filed another bid protest with the Department of Defense seeking clarification of the Pentagon's amended storage requirements. Since the specifications weren't clearly defined, Amazon had "no option but to appeal to the agency to clarify it."Microsoft said it didn't know the full scope of Amazon's appeal, but that the Pentagon's recent amendments "do not allow Amazon to undo its earlier business decision to bid high, which resulted in their loss."This story was updated to include a statement from the Pentagon.VIDEO8:4008:40AWS' Andy Jassy: JEDI cloud contract was not adjudicated correctlySquawk Alley

2020/02/13, VIDEO2:2602:26Judge grants Amazon injunction request in Jedi casePower LunchA federal judge Thursday ordered a temporary block on the JEDI cloud contract, which was awarded to Microsoft, in response to a suit filed by Amazon. Shares of Microsoft fell on the news, while Amazon's stock was down slightly.A court notice announcing the injunction was filed on Thursday but wasn't public. It's unclear why the documents were sealed.The Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, cloud computing contract is intended to modernize the Pentagon's IT operations. The contract could be worth up to $10 billion for services rendered over as many as 10 years. Microsoft was awarded the contract on Oct. 25.Amazon's cloud-computing arm, Amazon Web Services, is instructed to earmark $42 million for any "costs and damages" that could be incurred in the event that the "injunction was issued wrongfully," the filing states. Amazon must file a notice with the courts indicating it has obtained the $42 million by Feb. 20. Microsoft and Amazon must respond to the filing by Feb. 27.Microsoft and the Department of Defense criticized the ruling.Frank Shaw, Microsoft's corporate vice president of communications, told CNBC in a statement: "While we are disappointed with the additional delay we believe that we will ultimately be able to move forward with the work to make sure those who serve our country can access the new technology they urgently require. We have confidence in the Department of Defense, and we believe the facts will show they ran a detailed, thorough and fair process in determining the needs of the warfighter were best met by Microsoft."Department of Defense spokesperson Lt. Col. Robert Carver said, "We are disappointed in today's ruling and believe the actions taken in this litigation have unnecessarily delayed implementing DoD's modernization strategy and deprived our warfighters of a set of capabilities they urgently need. However, we are confident in our award of the JEDI cloud contract to Microsoft and remain focused on getting this critical capability into the hands of our warfighters as quickly and efficiently as possible.Amazon claimed 'unimistakable bias'Last month, AWS filed a formal motion asking the court to pause Microsoft's work on the JEDI cloud contract, claiming the evaluation process included "clear deficiencies, errors and unmistakable bias." The court granted that motion on Thursday.In April, the Defense Department announced that Amazon and Microsoft were the two finalists to provide the contract, ruling out other contenders, such as IBM and Oracle. Then in July, President Donald Trump said he was looking into the contract after IBM and other companies protested the bidding process. Microsoft was ultimately awarded the contract last October.Amazon has been protesting the move, saying that it was driven in part by Trump's bias against the company. Trump often criticizes Amazon and its CEO Jeff Bezos, who also owns The Washington Post, claiming the newspaper unfairly covers his administration.Court documents filed last December laid out in greater detail why AWS is challenging the decision. In them, AWS alleged Trump launched "behind-the-scenes attacks" against the company, which caused it to lose out on the cloud contract. AWS has called for the Defense Department to terminate the award and conduct another review of the submitted proposals.Earlier this week, Amazon said in newly unsealed court documents that it's looking to depose Trump, Defense Secretary Mark Esper and former Defense Secretary James Mattis as part of its protest of the JEDI cloud contract award. Amazon argues that it needs to hear from Trump to learn the scope of his involvement in the bidding process.Amazon's top spokesperson Jay Carney told CNBC on Wednesday that the company is protesting the decision to make sure the award process was "free of political interference.""All we're trying to do through this protest and this request for a legal review is to ensure that a proper decision was made on behalf of U.S. taxpayers," Carney, a former press secretary for President Barack Obama, told CNBC when asked about Amazon's move to depose Trump.Microsoft has been staffing up in preparation for working on the JEDI project, despite Amazon's protest. The company made attempts to lure talent from defense contractors and other companies, while there were numerous job openings for people with security clearances. Brad Smith, Microsoft's president and chief legal officer, told CNBC that the company was "moving even faster" since the JEDI contract was awarded.VIDEO6:4006:40Amazon SVP Carney: There was 'blatant political interference' in JEDI contractSquawk on the Street

2020/02/18, A person votes using with a machine that draws on Microsoft's ElectionGuard software in Fulton, Wisconsin, on February 18, 2020.MicrosoftPeople in the small Wisconsin town of Fulton are the first to try out software Microsoft designed to confirm that votes are being properly counted. On Tuesday, Fulton residents are using the technology while choosing who will join the local school board and hold a seat on Wisconsin's state supreme court.Microsoft's ElectionGuard software can count votes electronically while providing a separate means for voters to confirm that their votes are included in tallies, Tom Burt, Microsoft's corporate vice president for customer security and trust, said Thursday. Votes themselves are encrypted using a technique developed by Microsoft Research, so that nobody can see how an individual voted, Burt explained in a media briefing at company headquarters in Redmond, Washington. After a person votes, a printer next to the voting device generates a piece of paper, which the voter can view to make sure the votes were recorded properly and then drop into the ballot box. The paper also shows an online location that voters can look at later to make sure their vote was counted, although this web site doesn't show who they voted for, he said.The ElectionGuard technology won't be responsible for tallying votes in the Wisconsin primary election, however. Election officials will still count paper votes for the primary, a Wisconsin Elections Commission spokesperson told CNBC on Tuesday. It is technologically possible for a jurisdiction to rely on the software's digital counts and then fall back to paper ballots for verification, but the systems featuring Microsoft technology that people are using in Fulton on Tuesday have not been certified with the state, the spokesperson said.Microsoft said ElectionGuard won't be material to the company's business, since it's free to use, and that the company has no intention of entering the voting-hardware market. It's simply meant to help restore people's faith in voting, the company said. If it works, it could make Microsoft look like it's helping with the democratic process. That would be in contrast to companies such as Facebook and Twitter, which have seen their technology used for political aims in ways they say they never intended.As a first step, Microsoft worked with state, county and town election officials and nonprofit voting machine company VotingWorks to embed ElectionGuard into voting devices that people are using in Fulton, which has a population of 3,257.A voting machine that uses Microsoft ElectionGuard software.MicrosoftThe small test market is meant simply to give Microsoft feedback. The company said it wants to see if voters like the experience and to make sure everything works as it should. The state chose Fulton because counting ballots there wouldn't be too difficult, but there would also be a large enough sample size to see what people think of the technology, the Wisconsin election spokesman said.Microsoft is eager to get the technology more widely adopted, if not in time for the 2020 presidential elections, then maybe in time for the midterm elections in 2022, Burt said."The response from all three principal vendors [of voting devices] has been positive, and we're working with all of them," Burt said.Microsoft has even received interest in ElectionGuard from outside the U.S., including from a developer in Europe who's interested in the technology for city elections, Burt said."We may see this tech incorporated in nationwide or very large elections outside the United States even before it's incorporated inside the United States," he said.WATCH: Microsoft: Three midterm candidates targeted by phishing attacksVIDEO1:0101:01Microsoft: Three midterm candidates targeted by phishing attacksClosing Bell

2020/03/30, Amy Hood, CFO of Microsoft with Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft.CNBCShares of Microsoft closed up 7% on Monday, outperforming other major technology stocks for the day after the company disclosed a surge in use of its online services.Microsoft is among those seeing gains by providing software that workers can use to communicate with one another while staying home to reduce spread of the coronavirus, which has taken over 36,000 lives.Microsoft fields the Teams app that enables people to hold video calls and exchange chat messages. On March 18 Microsoft said Teams had added 12 million more daily users in the course of one week, for a total of 44 million.On Monday Microsoft introduced a version of its Microsoft 365 bundle that will make Teams available to consumers. "We have seen a 775% increase in Teams' calling and meeting monthly users in a one-month period in Italy, where social distancing or shelter in place orders have been enforced," Microsoft said on Monday in an update to a blog post that was originally published on Saturday.People also continue to use the older Skype app, which has 40 million daily users, up 70% from one month ago, Microsoft said. Microsoft's Windows Virtual Desktop and Power BI services have seen upticks as well, the company said.Stifel analysts led by Brad Reback flagged the statistics in a note distributed to clients on Monday."We believe COVID-19 will continue to accelerate the shift to flexible and scalable cloud services, and we believe Microsoft remains well positioned to capitalize on these trends both in the short term (as evidenced with the aforementioned stats) and long term (as COVID-19 accelerates digital transformation)," the analysts wrote.Microsoft and a handful of smaller technology names selling products people can use while working from home -- RingCentral, Slack, Zoom -- have outperformed U.S. indices in recent weeks.Microsoft is down 1% for the month of March, while the Nasdaq has fallen 9% and the S&P 500 is down 11%. For all of 2020, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq have declined 19% and 13% so far, and Microsoft is up 1.6%.WATCH: Tech companies partner with WHO for a coronavirus hackathonVIDEO0:2800:28Tech companies partner with WHO for a coronavirus hackathonClosing Bell

2019/12/31, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during a keynote session at the Microsoft Developers Build Conference in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Wednesday, April 29, 2015.David Paul Morris | Getty Images | BloombergMicrosoft just finished its best year in a decade — at least when it comes to stock price performance.Shares ended trading at $157.70 on Tuesday, extending its gains for 2019 to 55.3%, making this the stock's best year since 2009, when it rose 56.8%. Microsoft shares were up 417% higher for the decade — not quite the 9,562% gain of the 1990s, which saw the launch of Windows 95, but easily overshadowing the 2000s, when the company emerged from its major antitrust case.The Dow Jones Industrial Average, Nasdaq Composite and S&P 500 also jumped in the 2010s amid the longest economic expansion in U.S. history. The Nasdaq outperformed the other two indices with 295% growth. Microsoft didn't grow as much as some other S&P 500 constituents like Amazon, Broadcom and Netflix. Then again, Microsoft is worth more than all three of those companies, with a $1.20 trillion market capitalization. Only Apple and Saudi Aramco are worth more.VIDEO1:3201:32Microsoft vs. Amazon—The ongoing battle over JediThe ExchangeThis year Microsoft was a major contributor to the S&P 500's rise, second only to Apple. It contributed about 7% of the index's gains in 2019.The stock outcome reflects Microsoft's evolution. In the past 10 years the company underwent leadership changes and strategy shifts and pulled off its biggest acquisition yet. This year Microsoft has built on those transitions, and investors are expecting more growth as companies upgrade to the company's newest technology.And while regulators have looked afresh at Alphabet, Amazon, Apple and Facebook in recent months, Microsoft has largely escaped their scrutiny this time around.Here are some of the highlights of 2019 that could set up Microsoft for future gains in the months and years ahead:Windows 7 end of support. Microsoft will stop releasing security patches for Windows 7, which was released in 2009, on January 14, 2020. This event has been leading companies to shell out money so that employees can be on the latest platform, Windows 10. In the first quarter of Microsoft's 2020 fiscal year, Windows OEM Pro revenue grew 19%, the fastest growth since 2014. Windows OEM Pro reflects sales of Windows licenses for commercial PCs, and it represents 46% of Microsoft's total Windows revenue, Bernstein Research analysts Mark Moerdler and Firoz Valliji estimated a note distributed to clients in November. The analysts have the equivalent of a buy rating on Microsoft stock.Server product updates. The SQL Server 2008 database software reached end of support in July, and the Windows Server 2008 and Windows Server 2008 R2 operating systems will hit that point on January 14, 2020. Organizations have started moving to newer products, and that has helped boost Microsoft's Server products and cloud services revenue. The category grew by 30% in the first quarter of Microsoft's 2020 fiscal year, and that's saying something, because it's the biggest major product or service in terms of revenue. Server products and cloud services also includes the Azure public cloud.Government business. Perhaps the best news for Microsoft this year was scoring the Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, contract to supply Azure cloud services to the Defense Department, a deal that could be worth up to $10 billion. Amazon Web Services, the top cloud infrastructure provider and the vendor that some people expected to win the contract, is protesting the award, but for now Microsoft is the recipient of one of the most prominent government information-technology contracts in recent memory. Should Microsoft hold onto it, a cloud-snowball effect could take hold, and the win could attract additional business.Console wars, round four. Gaming might not be the first thing you think of when you think of Microsoft, but it gives the company 9% of its revenue. The company isn't about to abandon the market. Even as it's been readying a game streaming service, Microsoft is planning the launch of its fourth-generation console, the black refrigerator-shaped Xbox Series X, in the 2020 holiday season. In the 2010s Xbox One consoles never managed to exceed 32% of total console shipments and were always outsold by Sony's PlayStation 4, according to figures compiled by Lewis Ward, a research director at industry analysis firm IDC. Now the company is hungry. "We like leading in power and performance, and I feel like we're going to be there again," Microsoft's executive vice president of gaming, Phil Spencer, recently told GameSpot.Microsoft's next-generation Xbox Series X console.MicrosoftMicrosoft was the largest holding in investment bank William Blair's Large Cap Growth Fund at the end of the third quarter, at over 9%. The 20-year-old fund bought Microsoft stock after Nadella took over based on the company's potential in areas like cloud and artificial intelligence, Jim Golan, a portfolio manager of the fund, told CNBC in an interview in November."We've been very pleased with that investment," Golan said. "I think just [Nadella] changing the mindset and refocusing the company on key core growth areas has been really instrumental in terms of driving the performance that we've seen over the past several years."The adoption of cloud services will be a major driver for Microsoft in the future, and the company should be able to expand its margins as Azure gains scale, he said.WATCH: Nadella has made cloud a 'massive part' of Microsoft: Fund managerVIDEO2:4002:40Nadella has made cloud a 'massive part' of Microsoft: Fund managerStreet Signs EuropeFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/12/27, LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner participates in a question-and-answer interview during the seventh annual Washington Ideas Forum at the Harman Center for the Arts October 1, 2015 in Washington, DC.Chip Somodevilla | Getty Images News | Getty ImagesMicrosoft told investors what it could do with LinkedIn in a PowerPoint presentation it showed on the day the $26.2 billion deal was announced. It was June 13, 2016.Some of those ideas have been implemented since the deal was finalized, three years ago this month. Others are still on the way, LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner told CNBC in an interview this fall at his office in Sunnyvale, California.He turned to the Microsoft Surface Studio PC on his desk, brought up Microsoft's Outlook email service in a browser window and then, with a few clicks, accessed information from LinkedIn about people with whom he had exchanged messages."It's a really powerful way to just stay in touch and to just understand who's reaching out and what they're up to," said Weiner, who became LinkedIn's CEO in 2009, a year after joining the company from Yahoo.Although that integration exists on the web and in Outlook's iOS app, other promises have yet to materialize, such as an "Intelligent Newsfeed" in LinkedIn that draws from information in Office apps, and tools for managers to understand what their employees are doing at work.The slowness points to Microsoft's current desire to not screw up its biggest acquisition yet, suggesting a change in approach under CEO Satya Nadella.Microsoft has had acquisitions go wrong in the past.In 2012 Microsoft announced a $6.2 billion write-down of goodwill that was mostly related to aQuantive, a digital advertising company it had bought for $6.3 billion in 2007 in its biggest transaction yet at the time. Microsoft posted its first-ever quarterly loss as a result of the write-down.Microsoft also reported a quarterly loss in 2015 after announcing $8.3 billion in charges tied to the restructuring of its phone hardware business, following Microsoft's $9.5 billion purchase of Nokia Devices and Services business.Both of those deals were signed before Nadella replaced Steve Ballmer as CEO in 2014."Of course, we'll learn from the past," said Nadella about LinkedIn — he spoke from experience, as one of the executives responsible for Microsoft's advertising push following the close of the aQuantive deal.Amy Hood, Microsoft's finance chief, said the main goal of the acquisition was to accelerate growth at LinkedIn, as well as the Office 365 and Dynamics 365 product lines.As part of the deal, LinkedIn got to retain its independence and Weiner remained in charge. Weiner received a spot on Microsoft's senior leadership team and started reporting directly to Nadella, while keeping his CEO title."Satya has made good on every single thing we talked about prior to the acquisition," Weiner said.Microsoft took a somewhat similar approach with its $7.5 billion acquisition last year of code-sharing service GitHub, emphasizing that it would run independently. It tapped Nat Friedman, formerly CEO of mobile development start-up Xamarin, which Microsoft bought in 2016, to run GitHub, as GitHub had previously said it was looking for a new leader.On the day the GitHub acquisition was announced, Friedman said Microsoft technologies would come to GitHub's marketplace, while GitHub would bring new capabilities to Microsoft's Visual Studio Code text editor.A long time horizon for integrationLinkedIn was a special asset. Salesforce also wanted to buy it, and a months-long bidding war ensued. Following the loss, Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff suggested Microsoft's plans to bundle LinkedIn data with other products were anticompetitive.https://twitter.com/Benioff/status/781526453791838209Three years after the deal closed, Benioff's worst fears have not come true. By and large, LinkedIn still operates as a separate entity from the rest of the company.But Weiner says it's still early."We have a members-first approach," he said. "So it's all about making sure we're maintaining the trust of our membership. Microsoft has a very similar ethos with regard to how they secure the data of their customers, and just being very thoughtful in terms of the right way to roll this out and make sure that we create the right experience. So there's just been a lot of testing happening."Potential integrations were definitely part of Microsoft's original pitch for buying the company. The presentation featured six "illustrations" of the two companies' products coming together:A connection between LinkedIn's Sales Navigator and Microsoft Dynamics sales software. This technology is available, and teams have enhanced the connection between the services. People can also use Sales Navigator data in Microsoft's PowerApps and Power BI tools.A unified professional profile that would show LinkedIn details in Windows and Office applications. Microsoft has made inroads here, and the LinkedIn integration will be coming to the Outlook app for Android in 2020.An "Intelligent Newsfeed" in LinkedIn that draws on activity from Microsoft Office apps. This isn't available today, although LinkedIn has tapped Microsoft services such as translation to enhance the feed.Microsoft's Cortana virtual assistant telling users about relevant LinkedIn information. This isn't available today.Tools that managers can use to better understand employees' work activity. This isn't available today.LinkedIn Learning content inside Office applications. This isn't available today, but Weiner said bringing Learning content to Office apps "feels like it makes a lot of sense."In addition, during a CNBC appearance alongside Nadella on acquisition day, Weiner mentioned several Microsoft products that it would be "incredibly exciting" to integrate with, including Active Directory and Skype. To date LinkedIn has not touted integrations with those things.During that appearance, one Microsoft product Weiner didn't talk about integrating with was the Azure public cloud, which competes with market leader Amazon Web Services. Earlier this year, though, LinkedIn said it would adopt Azure after depending on its own infrastructure for years.The move to Azure could enable additional integration points."We're going to be building out an infrastructural capability on Azure so that Microsoft customers, in a private, in a secure, in a trusted environment, are going to be able to leverage LinkedIn data relevant to their employees with their own data as an organization," Weiner said. "And when you start to commingle that data, it becomes more valuable. So organizations will be able to run analysis and queries, and there's some really interesting things that can be done on that front."Internally, Microsoft recently deployed a new version of its corporate directory, called Who Plus, that draws on LinkedIn, Weiner said. LinkedIn could turn that integration into a product for non-Microsoft employees to use, he said.Weiner said LinkedIn profile information will become available in more of Microsoft's Outlook applications, including the Android app. And LinkedIn can improve the existing Outlook integrations."Once we've nailed that, we can potentially expand that into other Office applications, especially as Office continues to grow its collaborative capabilities — the ability to see who you're talking to, who you're contacting, who's reaching out to you, who you need to reach out to by virtue of their skills, their knowledge, etc. I think that can create a lot of value for folks," Weiner said.Weiner said the team is still thinking about how to integrate LinkedIn more into Windows, which is one of the less prominent possibilities Microsoft originally pointed to in its 2016 presentation to investors. He talked about enabling the right kind of news experience and delivering "active notifications."Little change but steady growthSo far, though, LinkedIn doesn't appear to have changed all that much for end users. But it might not need to.LinkedIn is still growing its user base — there are now 660 million members, up 52% from when Microsoft bought it — and LinkedIn contributed $6.75 billion in revenue in the 2019 fiscal year (which ended June 30), up 28.4% on an annualized basis. Although revenue growth hasn't exploded under Microsoft, ranging between 25% and 37% since 2018, growth was slowing down significantly when Microsoft bought it.Weiner says its performance is ahead of plan for the last three years."One thing I know is that by virtue of becoming a part of Microsoft, we were almost immediately able to focus increasingly on a longer-term horizon, and not be as focused on the immediate term, on the quarter-to-quarter performance," he said. "At the time of the close and shortly thereafter, at least for the first couple of quarters, our growth continued to decelerate. It was a couple of quarters later that it started to stabilize. And then it started to meaningfully accelerate."He continued, "So, if we were still public and there was that deceleration, what kind of response would we have seen from the Street? How would that have impacted the company? How would that have impacted our talent? It's hard to say. But — didn't happen, so don't spend a lot of time thinking about it."LinkedIn also hasn't done much for Microsoft's bottom line. In its fiscal year ended June 2018, Microsoft said that LinkedIn's fiscal-year operating loss widened by $63 million to $987 million — a drop in the bucket compared with Microsoft's overall net income of $16.57 billion that year. The company didn't provide an update on LinkedIn's profit or loss this year.Weiner said LinkedIn could improve its profitability by modernizing its billing infrastructure.The LinkedIn and Microsoft sales teams could also work more closely."I think there's opportunities to do that where we have a different customer set and different customer relationships, where Microsoft can potentially open doors by virtue of their relationships," Weiner said.WATCH: LinkedIn CEO on the company's growth and the state of the US economyVIDEO3:5203:52LinkedIn CEO on the company's growth and the state of the US economySquawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/01/29, VIDEO0:5400:54Microsoft shares rise on revenue and earnings beatClosing BellMicrosoft  stock moved 4% higher in extended trading on Wednesday after the company announced stronger-than-expected fiscal second-quarter results and revenue guidance for the next quarter. Here's how the company did:Earnings: $1.51 per share, excluding certain items, vs. $1.32 per share as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.Revenue: $36.91 billion, vs. $35.68 billion as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.On a year-over-year basis Microsoft's revenue rose 14% in the quarter, which ended on Dec. 31, according to a statement.Microsoft shares have been on a steady rise, jumping 63% in the past year, propelled by growth in the company's Azure public cloud business and Office 365 productivity suite. Ahead of the second-quarter earnings report, analysts called for continuing strength at Azure, which trails Amazon Web Services in cloud infrastructure, even though growth has been slowing.Azure growth for the quarter came in at 62%, decelerating from 76% a year ago but beating an estimate from Goldman Sachs analysts, who predicted growth of 58%, and accelerating from the prior quarter. Microsoft doesn't disclose Azure revenue in dollars."Our partner conversations this quarter continued to emphasize Azure's momentum, which is enabling the company to significantly outpace the overall market's growth," Goldman Sachs analysts led by Heather Bellini wrote in a Monday note. "Partners commented this quarter that they have seen Azure investments continue to increase significantly, as well an effective enterprise sales force focused on driving Azure adoption and usage."The most high-profile win for Azure in the quarter came from the U.S. Department of Defense, which awarded the controversial Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure (JEDI) cloud contract to Microsoft, worth up to $10 billion over a decade. Additionally, rival Salesforce said it would tap Azure to run its Marketing Cloud service.Microsoft included a new risk factor about government work in its latest quarterly earnings statement. "We may be subject to government audits and investigations relating to these contracts, we could be suspended or debarred as a governmental contractor, we could incur civil and criminal fines and penalties, and under certain circumstances contracts may be rescinded," the company said. It did not mention JEDI by name in the risk factor, despite that Amazon is currently  challenging the contract award in court.The Intelligent Cloud segment, which holds Azure, GitHub, server products like SQL Server and Windows Server and enterprise services, had $11.87 billion in revenue, up about 27% and more than the $11.40 billion consensus. Microsoft's biggest segment, More Personal Computing, containing Windows, Surface, Xbox and Bing, contributed $13.21 billion in revenue, up 1.6% year over year and above the $12.85 billion consensus among analysts surveyed by FactSet. Revenue from Xbox hardware decreased 43% in the quarter because of lower prices and volumes; the next-generation Xbox Series X will come out this holiday season.The Productivity and Business Processes segment, including Office, LinkedIn and Dynamics, put up $11.83 billion in revenue, up 17% and higher than the FactSet analyst consensus of $11.42 billion.Industry analysis firm IDC said this month that fourth-quarter PC shipments grew 4.8% year over year to 71.8 million, leading to the first full year of growth since 2011. Last year IDC said that businesses were upgrading to Windows 10 before the end of support for Windows 7 this month.Microsoft also stopped supporting the Windows Server 2008 operating system in mid-January, six months after it ended support of the SQL Server 2008 database software. Piper Sandler analysts led by Brent Bracelin, who have the equivalent of a buy rating on Microsoft stock, wrote in a note last week that those actions could "turn into potential growth headwinds this year." End of support for Windows Server 2008 contributed to the Intelligent Cloud growth, Microsoft said on Wednesday.The OEM Pro category, representing revenue from Windows licenses for commercial PCs, grew 26%, up from 19% one quarter earlier and the fastest growth at least since 2014, as companies kept moving to Windows 10. Microsoft's OEM non-Pro revenue, from Windows licenses for non-commercial PCs, increased 4%, the fastest growth since 2016.Other significant developments in the quarter included the unveiling of new Surface devices and the announced acquisition of data migration start-up Mover.With respect to guidance, Amy Hood, Microsoft's finance chief, told analysts Microsoft expects $34.1 billion to $34.9 billion in fiscal third-quarter revenue. The middle of the range, $34.5 billion, implies about 13% annualized growth and exceeds the $34.14 billion consensus among analysts polled by Refinitiv. She said her revenue guidance range for the More Personal Computing segment, at $10.75 billion to $11.15 billion, was wider than usual because of "uncertainty related to the public health situation in China."Hood also said she now thinks  that for the full 2020 fiscal year, which ends on June 30, Microsoft will increase its operating margin by 2 percentage points, suggesting about 36%, thanks to the company's results in the first half and the product sales mix  in the second half. In July she had told analysts to expect a "stable" operating margin for the fiscal year ahead. Follow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/02/05, Microsoft hardware chief Panos Panay introduces new products at a press event on October 2, 2018.CNBC | Todd HaseltonThe person in charge of Microsoft's Surface line of PCs is reportedly taking charge of the Windows technology people see when they use those Surfaces.Panos Panay, the company's chief product officer, who has been the face of the Surface for the past several years, is getting responsibility for Windows client -- the design and functionality that users see -- reporting to executive VP Rajesh Jha, as part of a broader reorg in that group. The core underlying technology is staying under executive VP Jason Zander. A Microsoft spokesperson confirmed the moves after ZDNet reported the news on Wednesday. The shake-up assigns the Windows user experience to one of Microsoft's most colorful figures, a reflection of the fact that Windows remains a crucial part of Microsoft's finances. Surface is smaller than Dell and HP in the PC market; devices represent about 6% of Microsoft's overall revenue. Windows, by contrast, delivers 15% of the company's total revenue.Panay is essentially taking over for Joe Befiore, who will move to the Office group after taking a sabbatical. Windows still doesn't have a sole representative in Microsoft's circle of top executives. It hasn't since Terry Myerson, formerly head of the company's Windows and Devices Group, left in 2018. The group was split in two, and the core engineering for Windows now sits in Zander's organization, alongside Microsoft's Azure cloud. The other piece went under Jha, head of Microsoft's Experiences and Devices organization.Each fall Panay captures attention for his flourishes as he reveals new devices at Microsoft hardware events. "If this was a symphony, it'd be missing one instrument," he said before unveiling the forthcoming Surface Duo smartphone running Google's Android operating system.Panay joined Microsoft in 2004 and has worked on hardware at the company for more than a decade. He spoke at the 2012 event where then-CEO Steve Ballmer showed off the original Surface convertible tablet."This was built as a stage for Windows 8," Panay said of the Surface at the 2012 event. "That was part of our core vision of the product. It was very important for us that we had the hardware fade to the background for this product it was important so the Windows software could rise to the surface."Microsoft said in 2019 that 900 million devices are running Windows 10, which was released in 2015.Other changes to Jha's group include the retirement of Microsoft Teams leader Brian Macdonald, whose role will be subsumed under long-time executive Jeff Teper; and Kirk Koenigsbauer, who currently runs Microsoft 365, will become Jha's chief operating officer. WATCH: AI is bringing computing to life, Microsoft exec saysVIDEO3:3503:35AI is bring computing to life, Microsoft exec saysSquawk Box Europe

2020/01/29, VIDEO0:5400:54Microsoft shares rise on revenue and earnings beatClosing BellMicrosoft  stock moved 4% higher in extended trading on Wednesday after the company announced stronger-than-expected fiscal second-quarter results and revenue guidance for the next quarter. Here's how the company did:Earnings: $1.51 per share, excluding certain items, vs. $1.32 per share as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.Revenue: $36.91 billion, vs. $35.68 billion as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.On a year-over-year basis Microsoft's revenue rose 14% in the quarter, which ended on Dec. 31, according to a statement.Microsoft shares have been on a steady rise, jumping 63% in the past year, propelled by growth in the company's Azure public cloud business and Office 365 productivity suite. Ahead of the second-quarter earnings report, analysts called for continuing strength at Azure, which trails Amazon Web Services in cloud infrastructure, even though growth has been slowing.Azure growth for the quarter came in at 62%, decelerating from 76% a year ago but beating an estimate from Goldman Sachs analysts, who predicted growth of 58%, and accelerating from the prior quarter. Microsoft doesn't disclose Azure revenue in dollars."Our partner conversations this quarter continued to emphasize Azure's momentum, which is enabling the company to significantly outpace the overall market's growth," Goldman Sachs analysts led by Heather Bellini wrote in a Monday note. "Partners commented this quarter that they have seen Azure investments continue to increase significantly, as well an effective enterprise sales force focused on driving Azure adoption and usage."The most high-profile win for Azure in the quarter came from the U.S. Department of Defense, which awarded the controversial Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure (JEDI) cloud contract to Microsoft, worth up to $10 billion over a decade. Additionally, rival Salesforce said it would tap Azure to run its Marketing Cloud service.Microsoft included a new risk factor about government work in its latest quarterly earnings statement. "We may be subject to government audits and investigations relating to these contracts, we could be suspended or debarred as a governmental contractor, we could incur civil and criminal fines and penalties, and under certain circumstances contracts may be rescinded," the company said. It did not mention JEDI by name in the risk factor, despite that Amazon is currently  challenging the contract award in court.The Intelligent Cloud segment, which holds Azure, GitHub, server products like SQL Server and Windows Server and enterprise services, had $11.87 billion in revenue, up about 27% and more than the $11.40 billion consensus. Microsoft's biggest segment, More Personal Computing, containing Windows, Surface, Xbox and Bing, contributed $13.21 billion in revenue, up 1.6% year over year and above the $12.85 billion consensus among analysts surveyed by FactSet. Revenue from Xbox hardware decreased 43% in the quarter because of lower prices and volumes; the next-generation Xbox Series X will come out this holiday season.The Productivity and Business Processes segment, including Office, LinkedIn and Dynamics, put up $11.83 billion in revenue, up 17% and higher than the FactSet analyst consensus of $11.42 billion.Industry analysis firm IDC said this month that fourth-quarter PC shipments grew 4.8% year over year to 71.8 million, leading to the first full year of growth since 2011. Last year IDC said that businesses were upgrading to Windows 10 before the end of support for Windows 7 this month.Microsoft also stopped supporting the Windows Server 2008 operating system in mid-January, six months after it ended support of the SQL Server 2008 database software. Piper Sandler analysts led by Brent Bracelin, who have the equivalent of a buy rating on Microsoft stock, wrote in a note last week that those actions could "turn into potential growth headwinds this year." End of support for Windows Server 2008 contributed to the Intelligent Cloud growth, Microsoft said on Wednesday.The OEM Pro category, representing revenue from Windows licenses for commercial PCs, grew 26%, up from 19% one quarter earlier and the fastest growth at least since 2014, as companies kept moving to Windows 10. Microsoft's OEM non-Pro revenue, from Windows licenses for non-commercial PCs, increased 4%, the fastest growth since 2016.Other significant developments in the quarter included the unveiling of new Surface devices and the announced acquisition of data migration start-up Mover.With respect to guidance, Amy Hood, Microsoft's finance chief, told analysts Microsoft expects $34.1 billion to $34.9 billion in fiscal third-quarter revenue. The middle of the range, $34.5 billion, implies about 13% annualized growth and exceeds the $34.14 billion consensus among analysts polled by Refinitiv. She said her revenue guidance range for the More Personal Computing segment, at $10.75 billion to $11.15 billion, was wider than usual because of "uncertainty related to the public health situation in China."Hood also said she now thinks  that for the full 2020 fiscal year, which ends on June 30, Microsoft will increase its operating margin by 2 percentage points, suggesting about 36%, thanks to the company's results in the first half and the product sales mix  in the second half. In July she had told analysts to expect a "stable" operating margin for the fiscal year ahead. Follow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/03/24, VIDEO15:3015:30Watch CNBC's full interview with Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaSquawk AlleyMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella said Tuesday that the hardware supply chain is coming back online as the coronavirus outbreak eases up in Asia, but said that the big question would be whether demand holds up in the U.S. and Europe."On the supply side we are getting back on rails," Nadella told CNBC's Jon Fortt when asked about whether Microsoft would be able to deliver later this year certain products it had promised before COVID-19 took hold, like new Surface devices and a revamped Xbox gaming console.Nadella, Microsoft's third CEO, has recast the company more as a cloud services and infrastructure provider, moving away from its historical focus on PC software like Windows and Office, since he took over from Steve Ballmer in 2014. The company has still been financially hit from the disease: It said last month it wouldn't be able to reach its revenue guidance range for the quarter for the division of the business that contains Windows. Several other companies have followed in taking down guidance.Altogether, though, the company is holding up, Nadella said."We have a great balance sheet, we are a very diverse business, we have a mix of annuity, non-annuity, that is also stronger than even the last time we even went into the financial crisis," he said. "I feel confident we'll come out of this, frankly, pretty strong."He said the company's cloud infrastructure and services have been holding up under increased demand."If this was a previous generation of data center architectures or software architectures, I don't think we would have been able to deal with this crisis as effectively as we have been able to," Nadella said.Bill Gates, Microsoft's original CEO and a co-founder of the company, stepped down from board to focus more on philanthropic activities on March 13. In an email to employees on Saturday Nadella told employees that with the coronavirus impacting Microsoft's home state of Washington and elsewhere, the past few weeks had been overwhelming.Nadella has been working from home in an office he shares with his daughters, and they've been helping him set up his desk, he said on Tuesday. Previously, he said, "I used to always work from my bed."Microsoft was earlier than Washington and other states to direct its people to stay home where possible. Nadella said Microsoft would follow public-health guidance in every country where it operates when it comes to bringing employees back to facilities.He said he support any sort of fiscal stimulus from the U.S. government."I think the government is doing the right thing, which is, they're focused on the employees who are most impacted and the industries that are most impacted, and small businesses," Nadella said. "Because those are the parts of the economy that are bearing the burden of this quarantine and staying at home."

2020/08/03, In this articleCSPRADTQCOMNKLADDCLXMSFTLLYNIOKODKBloomberg | Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines midday Monday:Nio — U.S.-traded shares of the China-based electric vehicle company jumped more than 13.9% after Nio reported July delivery figures. The company said that July deliveries jumped 322% year over year to 3,533 vehicles. Through the end of July the company has delivered 17,702 vehicles this year.Eli Lilly — Shares of the drugmaker rose 1.7% after the company announced that it started a phase three trial of an experimental preventative treatment for Covid-19. The trial is focused on patients and staff members at long-term care facilities, which have been the site of some of the worst outbreaks in the United States.Microsoft — Microsoft shares rose more than 5% after the tech giant confirmed it was in talks to buy social video app TikTok. The news comes as President Donald Trump threatened to ban the popular app in the U.S., citing security concerns over the ties between TikTok's parent company and China.Clorox  — Shares of the maker of bleach and disinfecting wipes dipped 1.9% despite the company beating on the top and bottom lines of its quarterly earnings. Clorox earned $2.41 per share on revenue of $1.98 billion. Analysts polled by Refinitiv expected earnings of $1.99 on revenue of $1.87 billion. The company named President Linda Rendle as the new CEO, effective Sept. 14.DuPont — An analyst at Stephens downgraded DuPont to equal weight from overweight, noting the company is "lacking" revenue growth that's driven by "innovation." "With the economy in the tank, innovation is harder to monetize, which is pushing back recovery further," the analyst said. DuPont shares fell 1.9%.Kodak — Kodak shares swooned 31.6% in midday trading as the volatile equity again curbed a significant portion of its eye-popping gains from July. Though Kodak shares are still up more than 700% over the last month after the Trump administration announced a $765 million financing deal, they are now worth $17.30 per share compared with $60 per share just last week.Nikola — The electric truck maker's stock jumped more than 21% ahead of the company's earnings results on Tuesday after the market closes. The report will be the first for the company, which went public through a reverse merger with special purpose acquisition company VectoIQ in June. The stock is currently more than 60% below its June 9 high of $93.99 per share.Qualcomm — Qualcomm jumped  3.8% after Bernstein upgraded the chipmaker to outperform from market perform. The Wall Street firm said it's bullish on the upcoming 5G cycle and sees a more "positive" risk/reward than it has been in a long time. Bernstein also cited "a cleaner outlook around customer and regulatory disputes and potential further upside from possible Huawei chip sales." Last week, the company reported better-than-expected quarterly earnings and revenue.ADT — The home security stock surged 56.6% after it announced a partnership with Google involving the Nest hardware product. As part of the deal, Google will invest $450 million in ADT to take a 6.6% stake in the company.Casper Sleep — Shares of the mattress maker dropped more than 13.3% ahead of a big lock-up expiration. On Tuesday, Casper insiders will be able to sell 31.3 million shares, or 78.8% of the company's total shares outstanding.HSBC — The U.S.-listed shares of HSBC fell 4.7% after the banking giant reported a 65% drop in pre-tax profits for the first half of the year due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The first six months of 2020 have been some of the most challenging in living memory," said CEO Noel Quinn in a statement.—CNBC's Yun Li, Pippa Stevens, Maggie Fitzgerald, Jesse Pound, Michael Bloom and Tom Franck contributed to this report.

2020/04/26, Kevin Scott, Microsoft's chief technology officer.MicrosoftIt's easy to imagine artificial intelligence brightening up life in the big city. Self-driving taxis, drones and food-production machines could provide all sorts of conveniences to city dwellers, like shorter commutes and faster package and food delivery.But technologists don't spend as much time talking about how AI can help small towns.Kevin Scott, Microsoft's chief technology officer, is an exception. Scott grew up in Gladys, Virginia, a farming community in Campbell County. The county's population of 54,885 decreased by 252 from the prior year, according to U.S. Census Bureau estimates. He talks about this part of the world in a new book co-written with Greg Shaw, "Reprogramming the American Dream."Scott, who has been working with a type of AI called machine learning since 2003 and helped lead Microsoft's $1 billion investment last year in OpenAI, believes AI can help people in Gladys and other small towns. While some worry about job losses stemming from adoption of AI in the workplace, he's hopeful that rural entrepreneurs can tap AI to build businesses that can solve local problems, and even improve people's jobs."If your job is about performing one or a small number of highly repetitive tasks, if those tasks can be done less expensively with automation, and your employer can't find a way to leverage your ingenuity and industry to make their business better, then yes, watch out for AI. But that's a lot of ifs," Scott and Shaw write in the book."The far more likely path for the foreseeable future if AI enhancing human productivity by doing the gruntiest of grunt work and freeing up humans to do things they are much better suited to do."The book arrives at a time when more people have time to read it. In the U.S. and abroad people have been ordered to stay home to avoid the coronavirus, including in Campbell County, which has 10 cases, according to the state health department. Unemployment increased in Virginia in March, although county-level data is not yet available.With the pandemic foremost on everybody's mind, Scott discussed with CNBC some ways that AI could come in handy for rural people in a future outbreak: Smart delivery vehicles. Autonomous vehicles like the one from Silicon Valley start-up Nuro that take up less space than cars could deliver goods to people safely and without human contact."I think about my grandmother, a 90-year-old woman living in a very sparsely populated part of Central Virginia," Scott said during an interview on Microsoft's Teams communication software on Tuesday. "She's lucky enough to be in just really good health. She lives independently in the same house my mom was raised in, and the day is coming when she's not going to be able to drive to pick up her prescription." Smarter delivery vehicles  could lengthen the amount of time she could live independently, he said.More modern digital health care. Without a top-tier research hospital in the area, Gladys residents don't have access to high-quality care if they come down with serious illnesses. Systems that count on AI to diagnose patients and refer them to specialists could help fill the gap, Scott said. Predictive models, coupled with biometric sensing, could contribute to early detection of diseases, and AI could play a role in delivering telemedicine, he said.Better interactions. Small-town people don't always have high-speed internet connections. It's something Microsoft has been trying to address since 2017 with its Airband effort, and the company has worked with partners to bring connectivity to Virginia's Charlotte and Halifax counties, which lie directly southeast and south of Campbell County, respectively. People with slow connections at home might ordinarily run into difficulty when they try to meet with people over video-calling software, which have become more popular in the coronavirus age.Teams, which is one of several options for video calls, draws on a type of AI known as reinforcement learning, which involves training systems better through repeated trial and error, to optimize call quality. "It can even fill in in some instances when there are tiny drops in the audio stream because of poor network connectivity," Scott said. "These digital tools are the things that in a world where we're dealing with the Covid crisis, they just need them more than ever, I think to have some more sense of continuity in their lives."UBI vs using AI to lower costsOne idea that people have floated when talking about the rise of AI is universal basic income — the idea of governments sending people money to help pay for the cost of living because of lost economic opportunity. It got a fresh wave of attention with one-time 2020 Democratic presidential candidate Andrew Yang proposing that every U.S. citizen could receive $1,000 per month. Scott isn't exactly the biggest fan of the idea. In the book he and Shaw call it "a blunt instrument."Still, he said in an email that the relief checks the U.S. government has handed out in recent weeks are a good thing."One of the things I'm hopeful for is that we choose to go a step further, and to invest in the uses of technology to make the costs of subsistence — food, healthcare, housing, education, and so on — a lot less than they are right now so that those relief checks would go further for everyone who needs them," he wrote.Scott suggested that at least in Gladys, the virus might not lead many businesses to close."Gladys is a very, very small town," Scott said. "It doesn't even have a stoplight on U.S. 501, which is the big route that runs through the town. So I think many of the businesses that were there qualify as essential, just because it's a convenience store and a Family Dollar, which sells limited groceries. There isn't even a grocery store in the town."People's social lives are off-kilter, though, he said. They can't go to church activities, he said, and charitable programs that normally help the needy have been put on hold.  WATCH: White House pushes 5G rollout, rural broadband internet accessVIDEO1:0101:01White House pushes 5G rollout, rural broadband internet accessSquawk on the Street

2020/03/18, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., gestures as he speaks during a Bloomberg event on the opening day of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, on Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft's Teams service for calling and chatting with colleagues has over 44 million daily active users, up from 20 million in November, the company said on Thursday. The disclosure puts even more distance between Teams and its closest competitor, Slack.The growth demonstrates that Microsoft can still attract fresh organic interest in its longstanding Office productivity software franchise. That increasing popularity could help the company retail Office customers that might otherwise start looking at other products, like Slack or video-calling service Zoom. The recent rush to adopt tools for virtual meetings as COVID-19 coronavirus forces people to work from home isn't hurting Microsoft's campaign. The spread of the virus has also attracted more people to Slack and Zoom, as well as  RingCentral, a provider of cloud-based phone and messaging services, and the Webex video calling tool from Cisco.The new 44 million figure for Teams was for Wednesday; there were 32 million daily users last Wednesday, March 11. Slack most recently provided engagement statistics in October, saying that there were 12 million daily active users of the app in September."COVID-19 has impacted the lives of people around the world. We believe it will be a turning point for the way people will work and learn," Jared Spataro, a Microsoft corporate vice president, wrote in a statement the company provided in an email on Wednesday. "Our customers have certainly turned to Teams during this challenging time, and we've seen usage spikes in markets most impacted by COVID-19."This week there were 14 times more Teams users in the Netherlands than there were one week earlier, Spataro told CNBC during a video call on Teams on Tuesday. There were 10 times more users in Spain and seven times more in France, he said. Accenture, Continental AG, Ernst & Young, Pfizer and SAP are among the 20 customers with over 100,000 active users of Teams, Spataro said.  Slack said on Thursday that it added 7,000 new paid customers between February 1 and March and 18 and that it added 5,000 new paid customers in the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year that ended on January 31. "Deep engagement and real activity is what matters here and, with more than 5 billion actions taken on our platform every week, Slack has established ours with significant advantages in scalability, platform depth and integrations, compliance features, security and usability," a Slack spokesperson wrote in an email on Thursday.Teams is included in corporate subscriptions to Office 365 bundle. There were more than 200 million commercial Office 365 monthly active users in the third quarter.Microsoft is bringing new features to Teams, including the ability to upload and show a custom background behind themselves on video calls, rather than using stock images. That capability has been popular in Zoom for months.  Microsoft will deliver technology that hides noises like typing or rustling through pages during video calls so that users can hear what speakers are saying. Users who want to speak up on crowded calls will be able to hit a button to display an icon of a raised hand. And users will be able to read and write chat messages even without an internet connection.WATCH: Microsoft leads mega-cap tech losses, but chart watcher sees buy opportunityVIDEO4:1304:13Microsoft leads mega-cap tech losses, but chart watcher sees buy opportunityTrading Nation

2020/01/26, Peter Lee from Microsoft HealthMicrosoftIn the era of Satya Nadella, Microsoft has transformed from a company that once acted as a near-monopoly with its proprietary operating system to a business that embraces partnerships and teams up with former rivals.Peter Lee, the corporate vice president for Microsoft Healthcare, said that same ethos of openness endorsed by Nadella is now needed in the health-care industry, where a battle is raging over whether patients should be able to get easy access to their medical data and share it with the app makers of their choice."When it comes to interoperability, Satya is enlightened," Lee said in an interview. Nadella took over as Microsoft CEO in 2014, and sparked a massive rally in the stock as he pushed the company to the cloud.Lee sees a parallel in the health-care industry. The Department of Health and Human Services proposed the regulatory changes last year to keep companies from blocking patient information."When the rules were proposed, we made a comment endorsing the technical choices," Lee said. "Directionally, we think these rules are correct because they're based on modern data standards." He said that Josh Mandel, Microsoft's chief architect,  suggested a few tweaks.The changes, if approved, would update the 21st-Century Cures Act, signed in 2016 to accelerate the development of new cures for disease. They would make medical records accessible through application programming interfaces (APIs), enabling a wider swath of health developers to build apps that could make the data available.Many patient advocates and doctors have joined Microsoft in speaking out in favor of the regulation, but among the opponents is Judy Faulkner, the CEO of Epic Systems, one of the top medical records providers. On Wednesday, Faulkner sent a letter to executives from some of the largest U.S. hospitals, which are also Epic customers, asking them to reject such interoperability, on concern that patient privacy could be compromised and that costs would go up for health systems to meet the regulatory requirements."Epic's focus is on saving lives and helping people get and stay well," a company spokesperson said in an email. "Our goal is to work with HHS to help make the proposed rule a good one. We hope that the rule will safeguard privacy of data, especially for family members who will not know that their health information has been shared."Politico reported on Friday that Faulkner is now considering a lawsuit if HHS finalizes the data-sharing regulations.Microsoft is in a sensitive spot. The software giant has tight relationships with Epic and Cerner, another large medical record vendor, particularly as those companies move workloads to the cloud. But Microsoft stands to benefit if the health-care industry makes it easier for patients to store and access their medical data from smartphones and cloud-based apps and if doctors can more simply exchange that data with providers at other hospitals.A Cerner representative told CNBC in a statement that it supports the "spirit of the proposed rule."During the public comment period, Microsoft and Google shared their views with lawmakers. Microsoft said that "advances in care and outcomes cannot be achieved without improvements in the state of interoperability between various systems and stakeholders in the health care ecosystem."Judith Faulkner, CEO of healthcare IT giant Epic Systems.Source: Epic SystemsA Google spokesperson said in a statement to CNBC that the company is "supportive of initiatives to prevent information blocking and facilitate secure data access to patients." Other tech companies have been largely silent on the issue of late, though Apple is attending a meeting on Monday, along with Microsoft, hosted by an organization called Carin Alliance that's supporting the policy change.The broad effort is to modernize the health data system. Today, many patients are still given their data on a PDF printout or on a CD-ROM and hospitals still sometimes rely on fax machines. That's held back the efforts of technology companies, like Google, Microsoft and Amazon, as they've attempted to move into the health-care sector and has been a hindrance to third-party app makers and start-ups that are struggling to access clinical information.However, Lee also acknowledged that companies like Epic and Cerner have helped push the industry in a digital direction and away from paper, a feat that he admires. Government data shows that close to 90% of doctors' offices are using an electronic health record system, up from around 20% in 2004 in part because of regulation like the 2009 HITECH Act."People under-appreciate how major, and how quickly this happened," Lee said. "It's a commendable accomplishment."Lee is careful not to pit Microsoft against opponents of the new rule, and said that it isn't Microsoft's place to make specific recommendations on how and when to fix the problems. He also said that Microsoft will pay close attention to the needs of health providers, including doctors and nurses, and keep an open dialog with the health-care industry.'Putting engineers behind it'Epic has garnered support for its focus on privacy from some customers in the medical industry like Omar Lateef, the CEO of Rush University Medical Center in Illinois. Lateef applauded Faulkner's concern for patient privacy, but told CNBC that regulatory progress is important  because "making it difficult for a patient to access their own data in any way is not acceptable."A spokesperson for Mayo Clinic, another Epic customer, agreed, saying in an email that it's "supportive of initiatives to prevent information blocking and facilitate secure data access to patients."Over the next decade, Lee says health data interoperability is critical. But in his view one thing that's missing is a better way to authenticate patients using some kind of digital credentialing system. Hospitals face big hurdles around identity management partly because there's no unique code, like a social security number, that pulls all patient medical information together. He used the example of his own name, Peter Lee, which is fairly common. How would a hospital know that they're treating the right Peter Lee?But progress starts with opening up data sources, Lee said. In terms of the open standards, "we wholeheartedly support them," he said. "We're also putting engineers behind it."WATCH: Satya Nadella credits Steve Ballmer for pushing Microsoft into the cloudVIDEO1:5801:58Satya Nadella credits Steve Ballmer for pushing Microsoft into the cloudMad Money with Jim CramerFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/05/18, In this articleAMZNFDXMSFTA FedEx employee wearing a protective mask and gloves loads boxes into a truck amid the coronavirus pandemic on April 28, 2020 in New York City,Alexi Rosenfeld | Getty ImagesMicrosoft and FedEx announced a joint, multiyear partnership on Monday that the pair believe could help "transform commerce" through FedEx's logistics network and Microsoft's cloud. The two said their first service, called FedEx Surround, will give real-time analytics into supply chain and delivery, so companies could potentially better ship goods.The companies did not disclose the full nature of the partnership, including how much FedEx will be paying Microsoft to use its Azure cloud technology. But the partnership represents yet another example of Amazon rivals choosing to go with Microsoft's cloud offering over the cloud computing market leader Amazon Web Services (AWS).Amazon and FedEx have been increasingly competitive with each other as Amazon invests heavily in building out its own shipping network. FedEx announced last year that it would end its ground delivery contract with Amazon. The e-commerce and tech giant still gives FedEx business thanks to third-party sellers who use it to ship packages. But many think Amazon will eventually ship everything itself without the help of third parties.Microsoft and FedEx's offering, which will be available later in the year, will collect data through FedEx's IoT technology and analyze it through Microsoft's suite of services, and could help predict issues that would slow delivery, such as severe weather or clearance issues. That could allow companies to change routes in order to deliver goods more quickly. Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO3:0103:01Pandemic proves e-commerce the trend to follow: FedEx Express Europe presidentSquawk Box Europe

2020/02/20, Satya Nadella, chief executive of Microsoft, speaks during a panel session on day three of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Jason Alden | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft will soon offer its Defender antivirus software for phones and other devices running Google's Android and Apple's iOS mobile operating systems, the company announced Thursday.The offering is Microsoft's latest effort to sell products to consumers using other companies' mobile products. Despite Microsoft's decades of experience with PC operating systems, Microsoft failed to gain a leading role in the market for smartphone operating systems, and in 2017 an executive made clear the company would stop building new Windows mobile features.In recent years the company has brought Office to Android and iOS, acquired popular mobile keyboard app SwiftKey, and come out with new mobile titles based on the Minecraft game it bought in 2014. Last year, Microsoft partnered with top Android phone maker Samsung and even introduced its own two-screened Android phone.Apple and Google have sought to police their app stores from instances of malware. That hasn't stopped Microsoft from jumping in."They're pretty safe, but pretty safe is not the same as safe," Rob Lefferts, a Microsoft corporate vice president, said in an interview at company headquarters in Redmond, Washington, last week. "Malware does happen on those platforms."People can end up allowing malware onto their Android devices by installing applications they find outside of Google Play, the official repository of apps for Android, Lefferts said.What's more, he said, mobile devices people can be subject to phishing, in which hackers provide inauthentic interfaces where people can enter usernames and passwords and inadvertently expose their credentials. Defender could help companies make employees less vulnerable to such attacks, Lefferts said.Microsoft already offers the Intune software that IT administrators can use to manage employees' PCs, smartphones and tablets. The Defender software coming to Android and iOS is about security, rather than management. It's designed to prevent people from visiting online destinations that Microsoft deems unsafe, Lefferts said.Microsoft sees an $80 billion total addressable security market, general manager Andrew Conway said during a media briefing at corporate headquarters.Security became a higher priority at Microsoft after co-founder Bill Gates sent his "trustworthy computing" memo to employees in 2002. Windows Defender was originally introduced in 2006, and last year the company changed the name to Microsoft Defender reflect the release of a version for Apple's Mac operating system. The company last year also introduced security-analytics tool called Azure Sentinel that competes with the likes of Splunk.WATCH: Why these investing experts say Microsoft is a buy right nowVIDEO2:0502:05Why these investing experts say Microsoft a buy right nowTrading Nation

2020/04/18, In this articleMSFTDr. Kong Yuefeng, a recovered COVID-19 patient who has passed his 14-day quarantine, donates plasma in the city's blood center in Wuhan in central China's Hubei province Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020.Barcroft Media | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is working with a consortium of pharmaceutical companies to recruit people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma, which could be used in treatments for the disease.To help get the word out, the company is launching a chatbot, which it refers to as its "plasmabot," to lead people through a series of questions to determine if they're a candidate to donate plasma. The plasmabot, which goes live this weekend, will also provide information about the procedure and direct them to a nearby site where they can safely make the donation.Using convalescent plasma -- a component of blood -- as a treatment is a decades-old idea. When a patient recovers from a disease, they produce antibodies to fight the presence of the antigen that caused the disease -- like a virus -- and those proteins will remain in the blood for a few months. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has not approved any treatments using convalescent plasma, but is currently regulating it as an investigational product. In a blog post, Microsoft says there are two possible approaches with collected plasma: Make transfusions directly available to those who are battling the virus, or incorporate the antibodies to help develop a medicine. Microsoft's head of research Peter Lee noted that the goal is to recruit as much plasma as soon as possible, as experts predict that we've either hit or are close to hitting the peak number of cases in many cities. He said the company is supporting the efforts of plasma alliance formed by companies like Octapharma, Takeda, CSL Behring and others. That project kicked off in late March, and counts the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation among its advisors.After conducting its own research into the approach, Lee said he believes it has the "potential to save lives." So the company is setting aside computing resources and other infrastructure, as well as engineering talent. It is also promoting the plasmabot through a website, and it's search, web and social channels. Microsoft is getting behind the effort now because plasma of recovered patients is only useful for a limited time."There's a window from onset of symptoms that lasts from 21 to about 56 days," said Lee.Donating plasma is a more involved process than giving blood, and will take a few hours for those who are willing to participate. But efforts that are already underway are showing some promise, and recovered patients are enthusiastic to help others.Lee noted that the approach is not going to provide a replacement for a full treatment, like a vaccine. But a vaccine will probably take more than a year to develop, and in the meantime plasma could provide some immediate relief to sick patients and potentially some protection (although that isn't yet well understood) for frontline workers.External experts agree that convalescent plasma is worth exploring, but point out that there are some potential pitfalls. "Convalescent plasma is very promising as a candidate for immediate treatment, especially as we continue to see mixed results from the repurposed drugs and their trial readouts," said Vasudev Bailey, a biotech investor with Artis Ventures.But as Bailey notes, there are some challenges that will need to be addressed, including the problem of recruiting enough patients. "It's not an antibody being made and scaled and mass produced in a lab. The limitation here is that we need enough people to have recovered and enough of these antibodies (quantity) to use in ailing new patients."VIDEO5:3305:33Mayo Clinic CEO discusses potential of plasma donations for treating Covid-19Squawk Box

2020/03/26, Stewart Butterfield, co-founder and CEO of Slack, at the 2018 WEF in Davos, Switzerland.Adam Galica | CNBCSlack, the team collaboration tool, is working on technology that will enable users to communicate with others who use Microsoft's Teams, Slack's top competitor. Slack co-founder and CEO Stewart Butterfield announced the plan during a call with RBC analyst Alex Zukin on Thursday.The strategy reflects a growing awareness that people use other services for certain features that are already available in Slack. Last week Microsoft revealed that Teams had 44 million daily active users. Slack has not announced a comparable tally since October, when it said there were 12 million daily users."We're working on Teams integrations for calling features," Butterfield said on the call.Slack already works with Microsoft Office services like OneDrive, Outlook and SharePoint.Microsoft Teams, as well as Zoom, have provided a kind of virtual substitute for in-person meetings in conference rooms after more people began working from home in recent weeks to avoid further spread of the coronavirus, Butterfield said on the call.It's not clear when the integration will become available in Slack. A Slack spokesperson declined to provide a comment for this article."Our Microsoft 365 application programming interfaces are public and open to customers and all third-party developers," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Monday, following the public of this article. "Providing developers with access to our services enables ISVs [independent software vendors] to tap into and extend the powerful capabilities of Office and Microsoft Teams."Slack became available in 2014, and Microsoft introduced Teams in 2016. "Wow, big news! Congratulations on today's announcements!" Slack wrote in a letter published as a full-page ad in the New York Times. "We're genuinely excited to have some competition."tweetSlack has seen an increase in usage as of late, Butterfield said in a series of tweets on Wednesday, and Teams and Zoom have as well. Butterfield said he expects "at least partial reverse to the mean" on some of its growth rates.WATCH: Slack CEO Stewart Butterfield on company earnings and working from home amid coronavirus outbreakVIDEO4:4304:43Slack CEO Stewart Butterfield on company earnings and working from homeSquawk Box

2019/12/17, A visitor tries Microsoft's Windows 10 operating system on a tablet device during a launch event in Tokyo.Kiyoshi Ota | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe rivalry between tech giant Microsoft and office software start-up Slack Technologies is a reflection of a decade in which the enterprise collaboration market has become highly competitive. The Microsoft Teams application continues to have an edge, according to the Q4 Technology Executive Council Survey conducted by CNBC, with 58% saying their firms use the Microsoft app. That was almost twice as many as those (30%) who said their firms use Slack.The CNBC Technology Executive Council survey released Tuesday was conducted from Dec. 2–11, 2019. It included a limited sampling of 51 of the 157 members of the council, who serve in senior technology positions at large companies, as well as at government and nonprofit organizations.Earlier this month, Slack CEO Stewart Butterfield told CNBC that most of Slack's top customers use parts of Microsoft's Office 365 suite, but are choosing Slack for messaging instead of the competing Microsoft Teams app."In general, we continue to see tremendous adoption across customers of the Office suite," Butterfield said. "They choose Slack despite having a bundle alternative" that wraps in Teams, he said.The interview with Butterfield followed a Nov. 19 announcement in which Microsoft said publicly that Teams had more than 20 million daily active users — Microsoft first began providing metrics for Teams after Slack's IPO — ahead of the 12 million users Slack reported in October."We realize customers have a choice and we're happy that they're choosing Teams. People love Teams because they can do more in a single app," said Jared Spataro, corporate vice president, Microsoft 365, in a statement provided to CNBC.In its December earnings report, Slack said the number of paid customers with greater than $1 million in annual recurring revenue exceeded 50 for the first time, and was up from 30 a year ago. Butterfield told analysts after the earnings that almost 70% of those customers also use Office 365. As of Oct. 31, there were 26,000 companies using shared channels, which allows two Slack-using companies to collaborate across two organizations. Total paid customers rose 30% year over year to 105,000 and Slack raised its full-year outlook, but its shares have dipped lower since the earnings.Some market watchers have made claims that Microsoft's ability to package Teams with its Office 365 suite helps make the numbers look better by including as active users people who boot up their computer without intentionally opening the Teams app. Microsoft has pushed back against those claims, saying that just because Teams is installed on a PC and automatically opens on start-up, that doesn't mean the person gets counted as a user.Slack's Butterfield referred to confusion in the market that's "deliberately created" during a recent analyst call, and claimed Teams also has users who were recently pulled over from Skype for Business. Microsoft announced in July that it will retire its Skype for Business Online service in 2021."It's important to remember that not all daily active users are created equal," said Brian Elliott, vice president & general manager of platform at Slack, in an email statement provided to CNBC. "These survey numbers are unsurprising and, in fact, we expect them to keep rising. Fundamentally, Slack and Teams are different tools used for different purposes, no matter how much Microsoft wants to confuse the marketplace."VIDEO2:3502:35Where this analyst stands on the Slack-Microsoft debate"The success Slack has had, especially with tech and tech-forward companies, threatens a little bit of the core of what Microsoft does. People are spending less time on Outlook and that's a big part of their business and that's why you've seen Microsoft messaging around Teams and their daily active users get so aggressive," said Rishi Jaluria, D.A. Davidson analyst, in a Dec. 4 appearance on CNBC's Power Lunch."It's a huge market," Jaluria said, but what Slack investors are worried about is Microsoft having what he called a "good enough" effect. "Could Teams becomes good enough? That's what people are worried about," he said, but he added that people are misreading the situation and he thinks they are overly concerned about Microsoft. Unlike many other start-ups that recently went public, Jaluria — who maintains a neutral rating on Slack shares — said the company has demonstrated it has a path to profitability.Slack shares have dropped by more than 40% since the first-day close in June when they began trading on the New York Stock Exchange via a direct listing.In July, The Verge reported that sales teams at Microsoft have been focused on getting more people to use Teams, and that the tech giant's strategy included attracting new and old Microsoft customers.Five of the 51 survey respondents anonymously told CNBC that their company has been pressured by Microsoft to discontinue use of Slack or other messaging platforms and use Teams instead. But the majority (90%) said they did not feel any pressure from Microsoft.A spokeswoman from a third-party PR firm that represents Microsoft said such activity would be "against Microsoft's business practices."This past July, Butterfield said that he doesn't see Microsoft's reach as a threat. "If it's based on the bigger distribution, I don't think that's really a threat," the Slack CEO said at the Fortune Brainstorm Tech conference in Aspen, Colorado.VIDEO1:5001:50Survey: Finding qualified employees is tech's biggest riskSquawk Alley

2020/07/23, Twitter signage at the New York Stock Exchange.Scott Eells | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesHere are the companies making headlines in midday trading.Whirlpool – Shares jumped nearly 8% after the company's second quarter results blew past Street estimates. The appliance maker earned $2.15 per share on an adjusted basis, which was more than double the $1 analysts were expecting, according to estimates from Refinitiv. Revenue also exceeded expectations, and the company raised its full-year revenue outlook.Twitter – Shares of Twitter rose 4.1% after the social media company reported strong user growth in the second quarter. Monetizable daily active users jumped to 186 million, a 34% increase year over year, marking the highest rate since the company began reporting the metric. Twitter did, however, said its ad revenue tumbled 23% due to the pandemic.Microsoft — Shares of the software giant fell 4.4% after the company's forward guidance was weak relative to Wall Street's expectations. Microsoft beat estimates on the top and bottom lines for its fiscal fourth quarter, but its projection of $35.61 billion in revenue for the fourth quarter was $300 million below expectations, according to Refiniv. Oppenheimer also downgraded the stock to perform from outperform. Las Vegas Sands, MGM Resorts — Shares of Las Vegas Sands dropped 4.2% after the company reported just $98 million in revenue for the second quarter, more than $400 million below Wall Street expectations, according to Refinitiv. The loss per share was also wider than expected. Fellow casino stock MGM Resorts fell 2.7% following the news. PulteGroup — Shares of PulteGroup surged 4.7% after the home construction company reported better-than-expected quarterly result. Pulte posted an EPS of $1.29 in the second quarter, topping analyst estimates of 89 cents per share, according to FactSet. Meanwhile, its revenue also came in above expectations. The company said it's encouraged about the back half of 2020 given the strength of second quarter sales.American Airlines – Shares gained more than 3% despite the company reporting a $2.1 billion net loss for the second quarter as air travel remained depressed amid the pandemic. The airline has, however, restored more capacity than some of its competitors. "The current environment is more unpredictable and more volatile than anything we ever could have imagined," CEO Doug Parker said in a statement.Travelers — Shares of the insurance company fell nearly 3% following its weak earnings report. The company reported a loss of 20 cents per share, in line with estimates. Travelers missed on revenue, making $7.35 billion, compared to the $7.37 billion forecast by analysts.Equifax — Shares of Equifax jumped 5.1% after the company beat Wall Street expectations for its second quarter. The company reported adjusted earnings of $1.60 per share and $982.2 million of revenue. Analysts surveyed by FactSet were looking for $1.30 per share and revenue of $922.5 million. The company said that one of its Workforce Solutions segments had its best quarter in more than a decade. Allegion — Shares of the security company fell more than 8% after second-quarter revenue missed Wall Street expectations. Revenues in the U.S. were more than $15 million what analysts surveyed by FactSet were looking for. Adjusted earnings per share did come in eight cents higher than anticipated, according to FactSet.— CNBC's Yun Li, Pippa Stevens and Maggie Fitzgerald contributed to this story. 

2020/07/23, VIDEO0:5900:59Markets set to open higher following Microsoft, Tesla earningsMorning ReportTake a look at some of the biggest movers in the premarket:Twitter (TWTR) – Twitter reported a 34% jump in the key metric monetizable daily active users compared to a year ago, bringing the total to 186 million. Revenue fell short of Street forecasts, and Twitter reported an overall loss for the second quarter due to a one-time item related to a non-cash asset.AT&T (T) – AT&T beat estimates by 4 cents a share, with quarterly earnings of 83 cents per share. Revenue was in line with forecasts. The company said the Covid-19 pandemic impacted results across all its businesses.Blackstone (BX) – The private-equity firm's distributable earnings per share of 43 cents matched Wall Street forecasts, with the value of its private-equity portfolio jumping 12.8% during the quarter.PulteGroup (PHM) – The home builder beat estimates by 28 cents a share, with quarterly earnings of $1.15 per share. Revenue topped estimates as well, helped by low mortgage rates and a shortage of existing home inventories.Southwest Airlines (LUV) – The airline lost $2.67 per share for the second quarter, a penny a share wider than expected. Revenue was above forecasts. Southwest said it expected travel demand to remain depressed until a Covid-19 vaccine is developed.American Airlines (AAL) – American posted a quarterly loss of $7.82 per share, compared to a consensus estimate of a $7.70 per share loss. Revenue beat forecasts. American will sell $1.2 billion in senior notes, increasing its available liquidity to $16.2 billion.Dow Inc. (DOW) – The chemical maker said it would implement a restructuring that would see it cut 6% of its global workforce and exit unprofitable segments, saving it $300 million annually.AutoNation (AN) – The auto dealer earned an adjusted $1.41 per share, well above the consensus estimate of 37 cents, with revenue also above forecasts.Microsoft (MSFT) – Microsoft reported quarterly earnings of $1.46 per share, 12 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also came in above forecasts. The company said the increase in the number of home-based workers boosted its cloud computing business, but the pandemic has also slowed sales to small businesses as well as ad revenue for its LinkedIn unit.Tesla (TSLA) – Tesla earned $2.18 per share for the second quarter, compared to a consensus estimate of 3 cents per share. Revenue was above estimates as well, helped by the sale of $428 million in emissions credits while it dealt with the negative impact of the pandemic on automobile production and sales.Las Vegas Sands (LVS) – Las Vegas Sands lost $1.05 per share for its second quarter, wider than the 74 cents a share loss that analysts were expecting. The casino operator's revenue also missed estimates. Las Vegas Sands saw a 97% drop in revenue from a year earlier as the pandemic kept visitors away from its gambling operations in Las Vegas and Macau.Whirlpool (WHR) –  Whirlpool earned $2.15 per share for the second quarter, more than doubling the $1 a share consensus estimate. Revenue also beat forecasts, with the appliance maker noting recovery across all its regions as the quarter came to a close in June. Whirlpool also raised its full-year revenue outlook.Chipotle Mexican Grill (CMG) – Chipotle beat estimates by 5 cents a share, with quarterly earnings of 40 cents per share. The restaurant chain's revenue was slightly above analyst forecasts. Same-restaurant sales fell 9.8%, smaller than the 11.9% decline that analysts had predicted.Unilever (UN, UL) – Unilever saw sales drop less than expected during the second quarter, thanks to a strong performance in the consumer product company's North American market. Sales fell just 0.3%, less than the 4.3% decline that analysts had predicted, although it was the first decline in quarterly sales for Unilever since 2004.Corteva (CTVA) – The agricultural sciences company will be allowed to continue selling its weed killer Enlist Duo, following a ruling from a U.S. appeals court. That follows an earlier decision by the same court to block sales of a rival herbicide sold by Bayer. Environmental groups had sought a ban for the Corteva product.New York Times (NYT) – The Times is buying podcast producer Serial Productions, to expand its podcasting operations. Terms weren't disclosed but The Wall Street Journal reports the deal could be worth as much as $50 million.Bank of America (BAC) – Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.B) raised its stake in Bank of America to 11.3% from 10.9%, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. The new shares were purchased this week for an average price of $23.99 per share.Align Technology (ALGN) – Align lost 35 cents per share, wider than the 5 cents a share loss that analysts had predicted The maker of the Invisalign teeth straightening device's revenue came in above Wall Street forecasts. Results were impacted by dental practice closures related to the pandemic, but Align said practices had now reopened in all regions and that practitioners are increasingly using virtual tools as well.

2020/06/08, Stanley DruckenmillerAdam Jeffery | CNBCLegendary investor Stanley Druckenmiller said tech giants Amazon and Microsoft are still among his biggest holdings, but he said he's quite bearish on growth stocks as a group while expectations of the economic reopening boost value stocks."I have still something like Amazon and Microsoft in my largest holdings, but I have the least growth weighting in my portfolio that I've had in maybe six or seven years," the chairman and CEO of the Duquesne Family Office told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Monday.Amazon shares are up more than 34% year to date as the e-commerce behemoth benefited from consumers staying at home during the coronavirus pandemic. Microsoft is another stock that has surged during the outbreak, jumping 42.5% for 2020 through Friday's close. Growth stocks — which are characterized by their high growth expectations relative to the broader market — were among the best performers in the early stages of the pandemic. But in recent weeks, the so-called value stocks — which generally have low multiples relative to the market — have taken market leadership amid hopes of a potential coronavirus vaccine and the reopening if the economy. The iShares Edge MSCI USA Value Factor ETF (VLUE) has surged more than 13.5% over the past month. Its growth counterpart, the iShares MSCI USA Momentum Factor ETF (MTUM) has gained just 4.1% in that period. VIDEO1:4101:41Druckenmiller says Amazon and Microsoft remain among his largest holdingsSquawk BoxDruckenmiller said he could change his current stance on the market but noted he was "way too cautious" as stocks began surging from late-March lows.He said he was "humbled" by the market, posting a return of just 3% during the market's more than 40% surge since March 23."I think it's a fascinating time where, if you get a vaccine say by January or February, you get one distinct outcome within the market," Druckenmiller said. "If you don't get a vaccine for a year or two, you get another distinct outcome within the market.""Then you've got all the stimulus plans," Druckenmiller added. "If they deliver in July, you get one outcome. If they don't, liquidity falls off a cliff and you get another outcome."Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/03/02, Amy Hood, CFO of MicrosoftCNBCMicrosoft still sees plenty of opportunity to for customers to upgrade machines from Windows 7 to Windows 10,  and not only because of coronavirus fallout.Usually, Microsoft sees a pronounced increase in revenue around the time it ends support for an older version of its Windows operating system as individuals and companies buy PCs with the latest from Microsoft. Then, over time, the impact tails off, making for tougher year-over-year upgrade comparisons.It's taking longer this time around, which could spread out the revenue generated from the upgrade process to additional quarters. Analysts watch Windows revenue closely, as it gives Microsoft 15% of its revenue and meaningful profit.Amy Hood, Microsoft's finance chief, indicated to analysts in January that China's public health situation and a chip shortage could be factors in the prolonged Windows refresh cycle. At the time, she issued a quarterly revenue guidance range for the business segment including Windows that was wider than usual to reflect impact from the coronavirus in particular. Then, last week, in the midst of a market selloff, Microsoft said it did not expect to reach that guidance range, sending Microsoft and other stocks lower.The cycle is not as far along as it usually is at this point in the timeline, Hood said on Monday during a conversation with Morgan Stanley analyst Keith Weiss at Morgan Stanley's Technology Media and Telecom conference in San Francisco. Microsoft ended support for Windows 7 in January.Here's what Hood said:I think, in general, these cycles tend to look similar. But what I would say is this one is certainly more complicated by a number of things that I'll talk about in a second. What is different about this is there still remains quite a bit of opportunity more than we saw at this point in the prior cycle. A lot of that exists where you would expect it to exist, which is small and medium business segment. Not unusual, but it means that we do have some room to continue to grow and likely means that the curve will look different than last time in terms of its shape.Now, then you add to it two complicating factors, one of which you brought up, which have been chip supply, which has impacted some of the growth rates over the past bit. And then, the second one which is the supply chain currently in China in terms of bindings and productions. And so those will — and as we've talked about, will impact the quarterly results. And so I'm not sure it'll look like the exact same curve in terms of the prior cycle, not just because we have a little bit more left to go than we have had in prior cycles, but also because it's been a bit more volatile due to those two issues as we work through them.Microsoft released Windows 7 in 2009. Other than Windows 10, it's the most popular version of Windows on desktop, with about 23% share in February, according to Statcounter. Windows 8 and Windows 8.1, which came out in 2012 and 2013, respectively, are less widely used than Windows 7. Microsoft said in 2018 that there were 1.5 billion Windows devices."I feel great that we're executing well on end of support," Hood said on Monday, speaking of older versions of Windows PC licenses and other products. "It builds a great funnel for us as we think about transition to the cloud for customers and helping them on their hybrid journey."WATCH: Microsoft loses $200 billion in market cap in a week — now is time to buy stock, trader saysVIDEO4:2104:21Microsoft loses $200B in market cap in a week--Now is time to buy stock, trader saysTrading Nation

2020/03/18, VIDEO5:1605:16Here's why Microsoft could be worth buyingTrading NationStocks are suffering another steep decline Wednesday.The Dow Jones Industrial Average during the session lost all of its gains leading back to President Donald Trump's inauguration and markets suspended trading for the fourth time in two weeks after the S&P 500's plunge. The Nasdaq Composite also fell 4.7% on the day.But, despite the major sell-off, Todd Gordon of Ascent Wealth Partners said major tech stock Microsoft still looks like a buy even as the coronavirus crisis grows more severe. This is largely because of what Gordon sees in the charts of the Nasdaq 100-tracking ETF (QQQ) versus that of Microsoft.According to Gordon, QQQ has now fallen back to an old key level: its 200-week moving average."It held support at the end of 2018 into 2019 before quickly rebounding, [then falling] into the sideways range that we saw in 2019 when many were trying to convince [everyone] that a recession was imminent," he said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."Since then, QQQ rallied but is now retesting its 200-week moving average.Microsoft, however, hasn't "come anywhere near" its 200-week moving average despite the sell-off. That leads Gordon to say there is some "nice relative strength" in the tech giant. Its stock would need to fall below $98 to breach its 200-week moving average. It closed Wednesday at $143.60. Microsoft is currently 12% lower this year, while QQQ has fallen 19%.Disclosure: Ascent Wealth Partners holds Microsoft. Disclaimer

2020/01/23, The dual-screen Surface Neo.Microsoft recently showed off some examples of how it wants apps to look on new dual-screen computers that are coming this year.Microsoft's first dual-screen Windows 10X computer, the Surface Neo, will launch ahead of the holidays this year, and partners like Lenovo have already announced similar products.The design recommendations from Microsoft below show how the company is thinking about apps that run on two screens.Take this image below, for example, which shows how Microsoft envisions a menu appearing on a computer with a divider between two screens. If a developer doesn't make the app properly, the pop-up could appear right where there's a screen gap.Microsoft guidelines for Windows 10XMicrosoftMicrosoft makes a bunch of other suggestions to developers: Menus and other windows also should appear on either one side of the screen or the other, not in the middle.Microsoft guidelines for Windows 10XMicrosoftAlso, if you have lots of columns, like in a spreadsheet, you should break it up so the middle of the spreadsheet doesn't get caught in the same areaMicrosoft guidelines for Windows 10XMicrosoftSuggestions, not requirementsMicrosoft is hedging its bets by making these recommendations instead of requirements. If it required developers to revamp their apps , it would run the risk of app-makers just ignoring the platform completely. Software developers may balk at doing extra work for a platform that doesn't have many users yet.But if developers just ignore the guidelines, that could create headaches for users. Imagine opening a game where there's just a big divider right down the middle blocking out stuff. Or opening an app like Slack where a bunch of the chat is just cut off. (I'm guessing Microsoft's competitor, Teams, will work just fine!)There are areas where Microsoft has actual platform requirements for developers. The Windows App Store, for example, has very specific terms for apps that developers have to abide by. Microsoft could, under the rules, force new apps in the store to support two screens properly.One rule for the Windows App Store is for "usability," for example. "Products should support the devices and platforms on which they are downloaded, including compatibility with the software, hardware and screen resolution requirements specified by the product."Microsoft could also lead by example. If it shows off a really exciting version of one of its apps, like OneNote, for example, where you can draw on one side while seeing other open notes on the other, it might show consumers how and why these computers are powerful and unlike the laptops they already own.Lenovo ThinkPad X1 FoldLenovoBut it's early yet. Microsoft may share more, including actual requirements, during its Developer Day online event on Feb. 11. In a blog post, Microsoft suggested it may have one potential solution in place already: "Your app by default will occupy a single screen, but users can span the app to cover both screens when the device [is open]."Microsoft could potentially limit apps to running on only one screen if they aren't designed to work on two screens at once. That would at least alleviate some headaches for consumers.VIDEO3:5203:52Microsoft unveils Surface Neo two-screened laptop, for 2020 releaseSquawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech product news.

2020/02/28, VIDEO4:2004:20Trillion-dollar tech stocks take down marketTrading NationMicrosoft is fighting back Friday after a nasty week.Friday afternoon, shares were slightly positive, trading above $158, but were still down 11% since Monday as fears spiked over the severity of the coronavirus outbreak.In the past seven trading sessions, Microsoft shed $232 billion in market cap.Todd Gordon, managing director of Ascent Wealth Partners, says it's nearing the time to jump back into the stock."I like Microsoft in terms of pulling back here, adding some exposure," Gordon said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."Gordon warns that it could get down to the 200-day moving average and possibly overshoot it before bouncing back."It's gravitating around the $145 mark, so if we're going to leg in, we want to do so carefully with that in mind," said Gordon. From $145 to $150, "that's your buy zone in Microsoft."The upper end of the buy zone would take it down to levels not seen since mid-December."It's a stock that's working. It has beat earnings six of the last seven reports. I think a lot of people are underinvested, and I think this is an opportunity for those who've missed as the market has been quiet for two years," he said. "To get into the pullback I'd say stick with what's working."Microsoft isn't the only mega-cap stock leading losses over the past week. Microsoft, Apple, Alphabet, Amazon, Facebook and Visa have lost a collective $1 trillion in market cap in seven trading sessions.John Petrides, portfolio manager at Tocqueville Asset Management, warns that investors could have more exposure to these names than they believe."When you have the top five companies in the S&P 500 [Microsoft, Apple, Amazon, Alphabet and Facebook] making up 18% of the index … and you have the highest concentration of sector and stock exposure since the dot-com bubble, I would say people have more exposure to this [tech] sector and to these names than … they probably even realize," Petrides said during the same segment.As of Friday, Alphabet, Apple and Facebook are negative for the year and Microsoft and Amazon are holding on to slight gains.Disclosure: Ascent Wealth Partners holds Microsoft. Disclaimer

2020/01/10, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during the unveiling of the Surface Pro 3 at an event in New York on May 20, 2014.Jin Lee | Bloomberg | GettyAt Microsoft's annual hardware event in October, product chief Panos Panay wanted to show the audience just how easy it is to repair the company's new laptop. Pacing the stage while holding a Surface Laptop 3, Panay lifted the keyboard case right off the device, revealing removable storage and internal parts held together with simple magnets instead of unwieldy adhesive.The audience cheered. It was a big moment for Microsoft, whose Surface devices have been panned for years for being difficult for consumers and service providers to fix, relative to rival devices from Dell and HP."Being able to repair and service a product without at all impacting any of the beauty of that, and the elegance, is critical," Panay told the crowd of Microsoft enthusiasts and employees.Microsoft, the world's biggest software maker and second-most valuable publicly traded U.S. company, only gets 5% of revenue from devices. But the company has been busy reinvigorating the line with new chip options and new devices, like the two-screened Surface Neo that will run a forthcoming variant of Windows.When people spend $1,000 on a laptop, the price of a Surface Laptop 3, they'd generally prefer to keep their maintenance costs down. That's been a weakness for Microsoft, whose two prior Surface laptops both received "repairability scores" of zero out of 10 from iFixit, a company that sells repair equipment and rips apart gadgets to reveal their guts. The Surface Pro detachable tablets were given scores of one and two over the years by iFixit, and the Surface Pro 7 tablet, announced in October, received a one.Weeks after the October unveiling of the Laptop Surface 3, iFixit recognized what Panay was showing off, coming out with a score of five. A month later, iFixit gave the Surface Pro X tablet, featuring a Qualcomm chip, a six and said it was "cautiously optimistic" about the device "since ripping into the Surface Laptop 3." It was the highest score yet for a Microsoft-branded desktop, laptop or tablet.VIDEO5:0205:02First look at Microsoft's new folding phone the Surface DuoTechKyle Wiens, iFixit's CEO, told CNBC that the improvements are an about-face for Microsoft."I've got to give them props for figuring out how to accomplish that level of repairability without sacrificing the design," Wiens said.While HP and Dell have seen scores of nine and 10, Apple is on the other end of the spectrum, making it notoriously difficult for customers to pop open its MacBooks and iPads and make repairs. In giving the iPad 7 a score of two last year, iFixit said, "battery and logic board replacements are particularly obnoxious."Microsoft has been considering ways to make its gadgets more friendly to fixes since at least 2018, when Panay referenced the need to improve in that area in the company's sustainability report."Looking forward, we must continue to push our sustainability efforts even further, focusing on advancing the modularity, repairability, and recyclability of our products, increasing our suppliers' energy efficiency, and committing to a holistic approach to address social and environmental issues," Panay wrote. Five times the report mentioned "repairability," a word that wasn't used even once the prior year.Microsoft went even further last year, disclosing in its sustainability report that it planned to come up with a "repairability metric" for Surface products. The company said it hit 80% of its objective for fiscal 2019.'Don't try that, OK?'"We are working with our industry partners to provide repair options that ensure the quality of repairs" while protecting consumer privacy and security and focusing on safety, a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email, declining to comment specifically on the new metric.Still, Microsoft isn't recommending that customers try these repairs at home, but rather take their devices to authorized service providers. If they repair or upgrade their hard drive themselves, "Microsoft's limited warranty will not cover any damage that may occur to your equipment or Surface device," the spokesperson said.The company is also working to "increase convenience for our customers," the spokesperson said, aiming to "roll out a global network of authorized service providers."At the hardware event late last year, Panay urged customers not to play Mr. Fixit."Don't try that, OK? Don't do that," Panay said. "Don't call me or send me the tweet that says, 'I tried to rip the top off and now it's broken and it's your fault.'"WATCH: Microsoft unveils Surface Neo two-screened laptop, due to be released in 2020VIDEO3:5203:52Microsoft unveils Surface Neo two-screened laptop, for 2020 releaseSquawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/09/16, VIDEO1:2701:27Cramer: You want to be in the market if we get another stimulus packageSquawk on the StreetStocks fell in volatile trading on Thursday amid renewed pressure in shares of  major tech companies. Conflicting messaging on the coronavirus vaccine front and uncertainty around further stimulus also weighed on sentiment. The Dow Jones Industrial Average slid 130.40 points, or 0.5%, to 27,901.98, snapping a four-day winning streak. The 30-stock average fell as much as 384.45 points, while briefly turning positive during the wild session.The S&P 500 dropped 0.8%, or 28.48 points, to 3,357.01. The Nasdaq Composite fell 1.3%, or 140.19 points, to 10,910.28. The tech-heavy benchmark briefly dipped back into correction territory, down 10% from its all-time high. "The market had gone up too much, too fast and valuations got to a point where that was more noticeable than before," said Tom Martin, senior portfolio manager at GLOBALT. "So now you're seeing the market correct a bit.""The question now is whether this is the kind of range we'll be in for the rest of the year," said Martin. Facebook and Amazon were down 3.3% and 2.3%, respectively. Netflix closed 2.8% lower. Alphabet dropped 1.7% while Apple and Microsoft were both down at least 1%. Snowflake, an IPO which captivated Wall Street on Wednesday as it doubled in its debut, was off by 10.4%. Thursday's decline came amid conflicting messages about the timeline for a coronavirus vaccine. President Donald Trump said late Wednesday that the U.S. could distribute a vaccine as early as October, contradicting the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who told lawmakers earlier in the day that vaccinations would be in limited quantities this year and not widely distributed for six to nine months.Traders were also monitoring the status of stimulus talks after Trump suggested Wednesday he could support a larger package. However, multiple reports indicated that Senate Republicans appeared reluctant to do so without more details on a bill."I do feel the stimulus package is very hard to get," CNBC's Jim Cramer said on Thursday. "But if we do get it, you can't be out of this market.""If we get a stimulus package and you're out of the market, you will feel awful," he said.Meanwhile, Wall Street evaluated for a second day the Federal Reserve's interest rate outlook where it indicated rates could stay low through 2023 as the central bank tries to spur inflation. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell said in a news conference easy monetary policy will remain "until these outcomes, including maximum employment, are achieved."Powell also pressed lawmakers to move forward with stimulus. But while traders want low interest rates, they may be second guessing what rates this low for years means for the economic outlook. "There's still a fair amount of uncertainty out there," said Gregory Faranello, head of U.S. rates trading at AmeriVet Securities. "When you look at the Fed's projections ... there was no inflation overshoot. Now, the longer-term projections were not included, so I imagine somewhere in there to be estimations of the Fed reaching — and going beyond — its 2% inflation goal. However, that was not noticeable."In economic news, the latest U.S. weekly jobless claims came in slightly better than expected. First-time claims for unemployment insurance totaled 860,000 in the week ending Sept.12, versus an estimate of 875,000, according to economists polled by Dow Jones.— CNBC's Yun Li contributed reporting.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/06/02, A Goldman Sachs sign is seen on at the company's post on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Brendan McDermid | Reuters(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Tuesday:Wells Fargo raised its price target on Microsoft to $250 from $205Wells Fargo raised its price target on the stock and said it thinks the company's market cap can top $2 trillion in the next few years as the coronavirus pandemic accelerates a move to the cloud."We believe the COVID-19 pandemic has created a Zeitgeist moment for the cloud as a whole— changing CIOs' cloud strategies forever (i.e., a 'no-cloud' strategy has officially become a 'no-go')—from which we expect Microsoft Azure to disproportionately benefit as the 'enterprise cloud.' Our thesis on Azure remains that Microsoft is narrowing the dollar revenue gap to #1 Amazon Web Services (AWS) and widening the gap to #3 Google Cloud."Read more about this call here.Cowen initiated Slack as outperformCowen said in its initiation of the business online messaging company that the coronavirus and work from home environment are a "major catalyst to accelerate adoption.""We are modeling 26% billings growth, above consensus at 22%, but we see significant upside potential to our forecasts. Our checks suggest WORK has seen a material uplift in new customer generation & expansion activity, and against a conservative guide, we think a more robust beat & raise will buck recent trends and demonstrate acceleration in market adoption and help drive a re-rate in the stock."

2020/01/16, VIDEO2:5702:57Microsoft CEO talks reducing carbon emissions, artificial intelligence, privacyMad Money with Jim CramerThe science is clear that environmental sustainability must factor in a corporation's growth plans, or the capitalist and economic system the U.S. enjoys "will fundamentally be in jeopardy," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella told CNBC Thursday."The corporation's purpose is to find profitable solutions to the problems of people and planet," he said in a sit down with Jim Cramer on "Mad Money," citing author and University of Oxford business professor Colin Mayer. "'Profitable' is the key word, but 'problems' is the other key word for people and planet."The comments came after Microsoft, the world's largest software company, announced an ambitious green plan intended to eliminate its carbon footprint and remove the amount of carbon it has emitted over the decades.Climate change has emerged as a top global concern and many executives are rolling out new models to become more eco-friendly. Microsoft wants to be carbon negative by 2030. By 2050, the company's goal is to remove as much carbon from the atmosphere as it produced since it was founded in 1975."So I think what happens is if you're creating a lot of profit and creating more problems for planet or people, I think it'll catch up with you," Nadella said. "I'm always saying our shareholders are the ones who are giving us permission to be able to think about [this] ... and therefore we are accountable to them to execute on these commitments that we are making, and that's good for business."Microsoft said the effort will demand development of new technologies by 2030 that do not exist today. The company is creating a "Climate Innovation Fund" of $1 billion to invest in carbon-removal technology over the coming years.More and more companies are putting out sustainability goals at a time where President Donald Trump has tapped the brakes on a number of the country's climate initiatives, such as pulling the U.S. out of the multilateral 2017 Paris Agreement. Last year, almost 200 chief executives who were part of the Business Roundtable, made a pact to change the "purpose of a corporation" to take social, economic and environmentally issues into account just as much as shareholders.Investors historically have thumbed their noses when companies make moves that could impact their bottom line negatively, but sustainable-focused investing has been heating up on Wall Street in recent years as the public increasingly demand officials and executives reduce their impact on the planet. Earlier this week, BlackRock, the world's largest money manager, made sustainability its "new standard for investing" in an annual letter to executives from CEO Larry Fink.Microsoft's CFO Amy Hood, appearing alongside Nadella later in the interview, said the eco-friendly program along with the company's $750 million commitment to affordable housing in Seattle, Washington "are good return investments."She stopped short of projecting what the return on investment in these initiatives would be, but explained that it will be measured and the company will hold itself accountable."I take a very long-term view. I think that's one of the things that we've prided ourselves on, whether that's investing in the region through the housing or whether the announcement this morning on climate," Hood said. "I mean, these are fundamentally issues of business return and I look at that ... quite closely."Microsoft is the second largest company in the U.S. with a market value of $1.27 trillion, just behind Apple. Apple, Microsoft and Alphabet make up the three companies trading on Wall Street that are worth more than $1 trillion.On Thursday, Microsoft shares advanced almost 2% to an all-time closing high of $166.17.VIDEO14:0514:05Microsoft CEO talks reducing carbon emissions, artificial intelligence, privacyMad Money with Jim CramerDisclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Microsoft, Apple and Alphabet.Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2020/07/15, In this article.DJUSSD@1YM20UVIDEO3:1003:10Stocks lower after weak jobs data—Three experts on how to investTrading NationStocks fell on Thursday as shares of the major tech companies struggled once again and traders digested a mixed batch of corporate earnings and economic data. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 135.39 points, or 0.5%, to 26,734.71 and snapped a four-day winning streak. The S&P 500 slid 0.3% to 3,215.57 and the Nasdaq Composite pulled back 0.7% to close at 10,473.83.Shares of Microsoft and Apple fell more than 1% each. Amazon dipped 0.3%. Netflix — which was set to report earnings after the bell — erased earlier losses and gained 0.8%. The streaming giant's stock dropped more than 11% after hours on the back of its results. Big Tech has been the best-performing group in the stock market this year as investors bet their business models could withstand the coronavirus economic slowdown. However, they have struggled this week. Netflix is down more than 3% week to date; Facebook, Amazon, Alphabet and Microsoft are also down over that time period.  "Over the next few weeks the core tech titans are set to report earnings," said Dan Ives, an analyst at Wedbush. "This will be a pivotal few weeks for investors to gauge how the tech stalwarts business models/trends are holding up in this unprecedented COVID-19 storm and will be a key barometer for overall consumer and enterprise spending trends during this semi-lockdown backdrop."The corporate earnings season began this week and continued with Bank of America reporting better-than-expected earnings for the previous quarter. However, the stock fell more than 2% as the company set aside $4 billion for coronavirus-related losses.Dow member Johnson & Johnson gained 0.7% on the back of better-than-expected earnings. Morgan Stanley popped 2.5% after the company's quarterly earnings easily beat analyst expectations on the back of strong trading revenues.  Jobless claims disappoint, retail sales surge againThe weekly jobless claims number came in slightly worse than expected. The Labor Department said a total of 1.3 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits last week, compared to Dow Jones estimates of 1.25 million first-time filers. However, retail sales jumped 7.5% in June, topping expectations of a 5.2% increase per Dow Jones. This reading came after May's 17.7% surge, which blew past estimates and was the largest reading on record.Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics, said the U.S. retail sales data could signal a big economic rebound in the third quarter. "But with the new wave of infections leading to renewed closures and restriction in some states, we still think the balance of risks to that third-quarter forecast lie to the downside," he said. More than 3.5 million coronavirus cases have been confirmed in the U.S. along with at least 137,846-related deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. Shares of companies that would benefit from the economy reopening struggled Thursday. Cruise operators Carnival, Royal Caribbean and Norwegian Cruise Line all fell more than 7%. United Airlines dropped more than 5% and American slipped 7.4%.Thursday's moves followed a major sell-off in mainland Chinese stocks, which saw the Shanghai composite down more than 4% on the day. The decline in Chinese equities followed the release of disappointing retail sales data in China, which dampened the enthusiasm around second-quarter GDP growth of 3.2%.The iShares China Large Cap ETF (FXI) closed more than 2% lower. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF (EEM) was also under pressure, sliding more than 1%. Wall Street was also coming off strong gains from the previous session, as news regarding a potential coronavirus vaccine lifted investor sentiment. Although some investors think expectations should be tempered. Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwards"We are not out of the woods yet and are still far away from returning to pre-Covid-19 economic levels," said Nate Fischer, chief investment strategist at Strategic Wealth Partners."The market is in need of a health-care solution, as the economy was forced to shut down for a health-care issue. So far, we've had fiscal and monetary assistance to this problem. Until a real medical remedy is found, the market will remain volatile," he added.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.—CNBC's Eustance Huang contributed to this report.

2019/11/24, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Volkswagen CEO Herbert Diess (not seen) attend a session during their visit to Volkswagen Digital Lab in Berlin on February 27, 2019.Abdulhamid Hosbas | Anadolu Agency | Getty ImagesMicrosoft has been accused of a lot of questionable behavior in its 44-year history, including tying its web browser to its operating system to restrict rivals and publicly criticizing the capabilities of Linux open-source software to protect its Windows franchise.  Microsoft defenders will say those are the days of old. But the debate about Microsoft's tactics resurfaced this week after the company published user numbers for its Teams chat product, which competes with Slack. Specifically, Microsoft said Teams now has 20 million daily active users, compared to the 12 million users Slack claimed as of October.Slack shares plunged 8.4% on Tuesday and closed the week at $21.17. The stock has dropped 45% since June 20, the day it debuted on the New York Stock Exchange.With a stock market value of over $1.1 trillion and near-ubiquity in the workplace, Microsoft can package Teams with its Office 365 suite and make it really easy for its massive customer base to use. Some are speculating that Microsoft is juicing the numbers by including as active users people who boot up their computer without intentionally opening Teams."Microsoft Teams reaching 20 million users is complete garbage growth hacking," one Twitter user wrote on Friday.tweetWhile that sort of attack may have been expected when Bill Gates or Steve Ballmer was running the show and taking on smaller players like Netscape and Sun Microsystems, it's the kind of criticism the company has tried to avoid since Satya Nadella took over in 2014. Rather than publicly battling rivals, Nadella's approach has been to partner with them and even allow competitors' technology to run in its Azure cloud.Jared Spataro, a corporate vice president at Microsoft, told CNBC in an email that Teams has been catching on among Microsoft's existing customers, as well as new users. He acknowledged that Teams starts by default so users can get to work more quickly, but said but that's not enough for a person to be counted in the daily active user tally.Spataro said there are several activities that can cause a customer to be counted as a user, including making a call through Teams or starting a chat in the app. He said that Microsoft makes sure that "there's no double-counting" and added that users and IT managers can disable the automatic start-up function."We feel really great about the way we define daily active users," Spataro said.A Slack representative said that to be counted as a daily active user of its service, a person on a free or paid plan has to create or consume content in the app during a 24-hour period.Slack launched publicly in 2014 and rocketed in popularity despite a ton of competition, thanks to a modern interface and mobile-friendly approach. Microsoft came out with Teams two years later, making it part of Office 365. Prior to that, Microsoft had spent an abundance of time and money trying to crack business messaging, a natural market for the company given the importance of its email offering. Microsoft acquired Yammer for $1.2 billion in 2012, a year after purchasing Skype for $8.5 billion, but the market remained heavily fragmented until Slack came along.So when Microsoft announced Teams, Slack welcomed it to the market, taking out an ad in the New York Times to mark the occasion. By mid-2019, Slack took the competition seriously enough to name Microsoft as its "primary competitor" in its IPO prospectus. Threat 'overblown'In July, a month after Slack's public market debut, Microsoft  disclosed  daily active users for the first time, providing a clear comparison to Slack. The numbers suggested that Teams was bigger than Slack and growing faster.Over the following months, Slack began raising questions about how Microsoft defines a user. Analysts have also brought up the issue."We continue to view the MSFT threat as overblown and debate the meaning of 'active,' especially with auto-install and auto-startup," DA Davidson analysts Rishi Jaluria and Hannah Rudoff, who have a neutral rating on Slack, wrote in a note this week, echoing the skepticism that could be found on Twitter. tweettweetMicrosoft is now going all-in on Teams. The company announced in July that it will retire its Skype for Business Online service in 2021 and has been encouraging users to try out Teams."Our customers tell us they want to accomplish more in a single place, and to meet this need, we built Microsoft Teams as a hub for teamwork that gives teams one place for chat, meetings, calling, file collaboration and workflow," Spataro said. "This goes far beyond the capabilities offered in Skype for Business and is the next chapter of our vision for communication and collaboration."After Microsoft gave its latest growth figures this week, Slack took another jab at its larger rival, tweeting a video showing that some of Microsoft's promotional materials look rather similar to its own. tweetMicrosoft declined to comment on the videos.WATCH: Valuation and overcrowding could be a risk to Microsoft, says Wilmington Trust strategistVIDEO3:3603:36Valuation and overcrowding could be a risk to Microsoft, says Wilmington Trust strategistHalftime ReportFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/03/31, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella (L) and Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos visit before a meeting of the White House American Technology Council in the State Dining Room of the White House June 19, 2017 in Washington, DC.Chip Somodevilla | Getty ImagesShares of Microsoft and Amazon closed the year's first quarter in the black, while its tech peers followed the broader market sell-off due to impacts from COVID-19. Microsoft stock closed up by a razor-thin .00006% in the past three months, while Amazon rose 5.43% during the market's worst first quarter ever, according to FactSet. The historic market volatility, however, caused their tech peers to close in the red for the past three months. Apple closed down 13.4% while Alphabet fell 13.25% in the past quarter. Companies have spent the last quarter warning about the impacts the deadly coronavirus pandemic will have on operations. Microsoft said last month it didn't expect to reach its quarterly revenue target for the business segment that includes Windows because of coronavirus-related interruptions to the supply chain, but also said demand was solid. Microsoft has also benefited from high usage of cloud services. Amazon meanwhile, has seen a surge in shoppers looking for supplies to get them through the emergency, including hand sanitizer, as well as high demand for Amazon Web Services by companies such as Slack and Zoom, who are meeting high demand while relying in part on Amazon infrastructure.Investors are continuing to monitor the worsening COVID-19 pandemic. As of Tuesday, there are more than 177,000 confirmed cases and at least 3,440 deaths in the U.S., according to data from Johns Hopkins University.-With reporting from CNBC's Jesse Pound.VIDEO5:5605:56Stock market bright spots after worst first quarter for S&P 500 everTrading NationSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2020/01/13, Copies of Microsoft Windows 7 are arranged for a photograph at a Staples store in New York, U.S., on Thursday, Oct. 22, 2009.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft will stop supporting Windows 7 beginning Tuesday, Jan. 14. That means it won't issue any more software updates, including software patches that could prevent cyberattacks, to millions of computers."While you could continue to use your PC running Windows 7, without continued software and security updates, it will be at greater risk for viruses and malware," Microsoft says on its website. "In addition, Microsoft customer service will no longer be available to provide Windows 7 technical support."Microsoft says people running Windows 7 should do one of two things. People with computers newer than three years old can pay to upgrade to Windows 10 if they haven't done so already. It starts at $139 per computer. Microsoft initially offered a free upgrade until July 29, 2016. But, if you have a computer that's more than three years old, Microsoft suggests buying a new computer that runs Windows 10.According to Net Applications figures from December, 32.74% of all laptops and desktops still run Windows 7, behind Windows 10. Windows 10 runs on more than 900 million devices.Newer Windows 10 computers have improved processors and other hardware that help the computer run faster. Sometimes upgrading an older computer to new software can result in slowness, or a lack of support for new features. Windows 10 has new security options, such as facial recognition or fingerprint recognition to log in, that require new hardware, for example.This isn't a surprise. Microsoft ended so-called "mainstream support" for Windows 7 in 2015, giving people who run the operating system, including doctor's offices, banks and other institutions that hold sensitive customer information, security updates until now. Mainstream support includes help with warranties and other incidents, and "the ability to request non-security updates," according to Microsoft.VIDEO1:4201:42Here's how Apple and Microsoft helped power the Dow to 29,000Squawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech product news.

2020/01/10, DJ Koh, president and CEO of Samsung Electronics, shakes hands with Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, at a launch event for the Samsung Galaxy Note 10 smartphone in New York on August 7, 2019.Drew Angerer | Getty ImagesSamsung Electronics and Microsoft are bringing back the walkie-talkie.On Sunday, Samsung introduced the Galaxy XCover Pro, a smartphone with a push-to-talk button that initiates a chat using Microsoft's Teams app. It's a joint effort by the two tech giants to get their mobile technology in the hands of more workers who spend their days and nights navigating hospital hallways, supermarket aisles and airplane cabins.Samsung is the No. 2 seller of smartphones in the U.S. behind Apple, which has built its lead with the help of enterprise functionality like security and identity management. Microsoft has largely given up on handsets and ditched its smartphone operating system, but the company still has a big play in mobile through its cloud-based Office 365 suite, which includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Teams.Microsoft set the stage for the Samsung agreement last week in announcing a push-to-talk feature in Teams and said it will be available to a limited set of customers in the first half of the year. The focus is on Android.At the end of third quarter, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said the company had 200 million Office 365 commercial monthly active users. It's been investing heavily in developing and marketing Teams, which competes with Slack.'One less device'Emma Williams, Microsoft's corporate vice president for Office verticals, said that in adding useful features for Teams, the company is trying to give people a more secure tool for chatting with co-workers than many of the consumer apps that are used in the workplace, whether it's Facebook's WhatsApp or Tencent's WeChat.It also cuts down on the number of devices people have to lug around. Williams said that while shopping at a retailer over the holidays, she saw a man carrying a personal phone, a work phone a walkie-talkie and a pager on his belt."The product we're shipping extends the range of traditional walkie-talkie communication," Williams said in an interview. "It reduces licensing and provisioning costs, and it's one less device for the employee to carry."It's not Microsoft's first swing at the market. In 2017, the company announced a bundle that included Office and other products for what it calls firstline workers in services industries and at task-oriented jobs. Late last year, Microsoft announced a new folding smartphone that runs on Android, but it's launching the new service with Samsung, which has a giant handset business and previously released a tablet for mobile workers.The 6.3-inch Galaxy XCover Pro has a replaceable battery and can survive falls from as high as 1.5 meters, or about 4.9 feet. Taher Behbehani, head of the mobile business-to-business unit for Samsung Electronics America, said the device is rugged but designed to look sleek. It runs Android and Samsung's Knox security software.The push-to-talk button on the phone initiates a conversation immediately. If the person on the other end doesn't have the device, there's a soft button within the Teams app that can launch the chat. Samsung designed the physical buttons so they can be customized, meaning they don't have to use it for Teams, Behbehani said.Long ago, Microsoft had big ambitions in mobile hardware, acquiring Nokia's devices and services business in 2013. The company scaled back, taking billions in charges on the deal and selling off the handset business. It also stopped developing new features for Windows 10 Mobile.Microsoft and Samsung said in August that Samsung devices would gain new integrations with Microsoft services like Outlook.WATCH: Samsung's partnership with Microsoft is a 'big deal': AnalystVIDEO2:2502:25Samsung's partnership with Microsoft is a 'big deal': AnalystSquawk Box AsiaFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/03/05, Satya Nadella, CEO of MicrosoftCNBCMicrosoft on Thursday committed to paying normal hourly wages to non-employees providing services to Microsoft workers, like bus drivers and cafeteria workers, who might otherwise receive less pay while many of the company's employees spend the next few weeks working from home to avoid exposure to the coronavirus.The announcement highlights one of many factors that go into the equation of how the virus will affect businesses, particularly those that are keeping employees away from their offices. On Wednesday Microsoft said employees in Washington's Puget Sound — the home of its headquarters — and California's Bay Area who can work from home should do so through March 25. Other companies have issued similar directives; on Wednesday San Francisco-based Salesforce encouraged all of its employees in the Washington cities of Seattle, Kirkland and Bellevue to work from home in March. "We recognize the hardship that lost work can mean for hourly employees," Brad Smith, Microsoft's president and chief legal officer, wrote in a blog post on Thursday. "As a result, we've decided that Microsoft will continue to pay all our vendor hourly service providers their regular pay during this period of reduced service needs. This is independent of whether their full services are needed. This will ensure that, in Puget Sound for example, the 4,500 hourly employees who work in our facilities will continue to receive their regular wages even if their work hours are reduced."Microsoft said last week that it didn't expect to reach its quarterly revenue target for the business segment that includes Windows because of coronavirus impact.Follow CNBC's live blog on the coronavirus here.WATCH: Microsoft was prudent to warn about coronavirus impact, analyst saysVIDEO2:5602:56Microsoft was prudent to warn about coronavirus impact, analyst saysSquawk Box

2020/03/04, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during a Bloomberg event on the opening day of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, on Tuesday, Jan. 21, 2020.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is encouraging employees in two areas hit by the coronavirus to work from home if they can for the next few weeks. The new rules affect the Puget Sound area in Washington that includes Microsoft's headquarters and California's Bay Area.Several technology companies have been putting provisions in place to keep work going while trying to minimize exposure to the coronavirus, of which there are at least 93,000 cases, according to the World Health Organization. The COVID-19 virus was identified in Wuhan, China, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention."Consistent with King County guidance, we are recommending all employees who are in a job that can be done from home should do so through March 25," Microsoft executive vice president Kurt DelBene wrote in a blog post on Wednesday. "Taking these measures will ensure your safety and also make the workplace safer for those that need to be onsite. Please let your manager know that you will be working from home, so all our teams remain well coordinated."The new direction applies through March 25, DelBene wrote.Employees who need to be on site, like those who staff retail stores and data centers, should go to work as usual, except those who are over 60, pregnant or have a compromised immune system or health condition, wrote DelBene, who cited information from Washington state's King County, where Microsoft is headquartered. Such people should consult with their managers, and sick people shouldn't come in, he wrote. Prolonged interaction with others in close proximity should be limited, he wrote.Microsoft is suggesting that people postpone trips to its Puget Sound and Bay Area campuses unless they are essential, and all business travel that isn't essential in areas the coronavirus is affecting should be canceled, DelBene wrote.More than one-third of Microsoft's 151,163 employees work in the Puget Sound area as of Dec. 31, according to the company's website.Earlier this week Microsoft announced the cancellation of a conference that it had planned to hold in the Puget Sound later this month. Facebook and Google have canceled developer conferences that had previously been scheduled. And Amazon and Google have sought to prevent certain employee travel. On Wednesday videoconference software company Zoom said it has told employees as its San Francisco headquarters to work from home. On Monday San Francisco-based Twitter advised employees to work from home if they can.King County and San Francisco have both declared a state of emergency.WATCH: School superintendents on coronavirus precautionsVIDEO7:3307:33School superintendents on coronavirus precautionsCoronavirus

2020/01/16, VIDEO1:5801:58Satya Nadella credits Steve Ballmer for pushing Microsoft into the cloudMad Money with Jim CramerMicrosoft's stock price has more than quadrupled since Satya Nadella took over as CEO six years ago, thanks to the company's rapid growth in cloud computing.But Nadella credits his predecessor, the louder and more outspoken Steve Ballmer, for making the decision to take on Amazon Web Services in cloud infrastructure, where Microsoft is now the clear No. 2 player."The guy who gave me permission to do all this was Steve Ballmer," Nadella told CNBC's Jim Cramer on Thursday, in an interview on "Mad Money" from Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond, Washington. "He wanted us to be bold and go at the cloud very aggressively, and that's what we did."With a market value of $1.27 trillion, Microsoft is the third most valuable public company, behind Saudi Aramco and Apple. The stock rose 58% in 2019, its best year in a decade, and continues to push the S&P 500 higher.Microsoft's stock under NadellaCNBCThe story was much different during Ballmer's tenure, as sales growth slowed and the stock flatlined. But even in those years, Ballmer's Microsoft was in the early phases of assembling a cloud that could challenge AWS. Azure was announced in 2008, six years before Nadella became CEO.Nadella then took steps to make Azure an easier choice for software developers. Two months after he became CEO, he changed Windows Azure to Microsoft Azure, underscoring the service's ability to handle computing tasks from Linux, which had long been a rival to Windows. Nadella also forged partnerships with competing companies like Red Hat and SAP.While Nadella wants to recognize Ballmer for guiding Microsoft toward the cloud, he's made a number of decisions to undo moves made by the prior CEO, who now owns the NBA's Los Angeles Clippers.Nadella backed Microsoft away from mobile hardware by selling off the feature phone business it picked up with the 2013 acquisition of the Nokia devices and services business. And while Windows was at the very center of Microsoft under Ballmer and even Bill Gates, in October Nadella told Wired that "the operating system is no longer the most important layer for us."Steve Ballmer, left, and NBA Commissioner Adam SIlver attend an NBA playoff game between the Oklahoma City Thunder and the Los Angeles Clippers at Staples Center on May 11, 2014 in Los Angeles.Noel Vasquez | GC | Getty ImagesUnder Nadella, cloud has become the centerpiece of the business, with Azure serving as the backbone for cloud-based Office applications and other services for personal and home use as well as powering other large enterprises and government agencies. On Thursday, Nadella called out cloud customers Marks & Spencer, Walmart and Walgreens."I think you have to have conviction on where the world is going, make sure you bet long before anybody gives you credit for it, and then, of course, execute," Nadella said. "That's what we have done in every layer of the stack."In comparing the Microsoft of today to the company Gates led in the 1970s, Nadella highlighted the current focus on artificial intelligence, distributed computing and "completely different ways to think about even end-user computing with things like HoloLens."There's one fundamental similarity."But guess what?" he said. "It's software."Follow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/07/09, Dr Pepper soda in the warehouse at the Dr Pepper Snapple Group bottling plant in Louisville, Kentucky, in April 2015.Luke Sharrett | Bloomberg | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:Morgan Stanley upgraded Cisco to overweight from equal weightMorgan Stanley said in its upgrade of the stock that its earnings flexibility is discounted in the company's valuation."CSCO's multiple discount to the S&P is at 10 year highs, despite durable earnings growth. We are mindful of secular headwinds and broad macro exposure, but think growing networking / security needs, cash flow flexibility and opex discipline provide tailwinds, helping multiple gap close over next twelve months.Earnings flexibility discounted in valuation today. We are cognizant that Cisco's top line is challenged in the near to medium term from macro headwinds, but diversification, opex discipline and cash flow flexibility afford it the ability to show greater resilience on the earnings line, something discounted in the multiple today."Read more about this call here.Credit Suisse initiated Darden as outperformCredit Suisse initiated the restaurant hospitality company and said it was "best-in-class" and well-positioned to benefit from industry contraction."We view DRI as a best-in-class operator in casual dining, with a heightened focus on employees leading to industry-leading retention, well-capitalized balance sheet positioning it to invest for future market share gains, and effective leveraging of its scale to generate efficiencies supporting above-average margin performance. Nearterm, we expect the pace of sales recovery will be the most meaningful catalyst, though improvements in the variable cost profile across the portfolio should allow DRI to return to prior margin levels ahead of a full sales recovery."

2020/03/20, Peter Lee from Microsoft HealthMicrosoftMicrosoft and Adaptive Biotechnologies are working together to study how the human immune system responds to the COVID-19 coronavirus. By understanding the immune signature, meaning how humans are responding to the disease, the companies hope to speed the process of developing a more accurate diagnostic test and treatment for COVID-19."Most efforts we're seeing so far are focused on the biology of the virus," said Adaptive Biotechnologies CEO Chad Robins by phone. "Now we're turning our focus on COVID-19 and adding a new dimension, which is the immune response." Adaptive has a broad mission of learning how the human immune system reacts to a library of illness, and eventually developing a kind of "immune checkup" for patients to get screened for infectious disease, cancer and autoimmune problems once or twice a year.  But that could be as far as a decade down the road. For now, it is focusing its attentions on COVID-19, which the World Health Organization has declared a pandemic. The disease is continuing its spread across the globe, and more than 240,000 cases have now been reported. Starting next month, Adaptive said it will kick off a virtual clinical study by collecting de-identified blood samples from people who have been diagnosed with or recovered from COVID-19. DNA sequencing machines from Illumina will be used to sequence the immune cell receptors. All of the data collected around the immune response signature will be uploaded to an open data access portal for researchers to use.Microsoft will provide its cloud and machine learning technology to help make sense of the samples. Microsoft research chief Peter Lee said the companies have been working together for a few years on using their technology to link all of T-cell receptors to the antigens that they are targeted to attack, in an effort to better understand the human immune system. Providence, a health system with more than 50 hospitals, is also participating in the project. It has already treated patients with the disease in the Seattle area, and has agreed to step up as a collaborator on the clinical trial. Labcorp, another partner, is offering up its mobile phlebotomy service to help make it easier to collect the blood samples. One reason scientists are so concerned about COVID-19 is that humans don't yet have any natural immunity to it. No immune system has seen it since the first case, which is believed to be in November. That makes it more contagious than say, the seasonal flu.Scientists also don't understand why some people experience mild symptoms that they chalk up to a cold while others get a severe immune system reaction that does more damage than the virus itself and puts them in critical care. Both Lee and Robins are hoping that Microsoft and Adaptive will come up with a new kind of diagnostic test down the road. If it works, they suspect the process would still involve collecting blood at home and mailing the results into a lab.VIDEO1:5301:53Must be careful saying drug 'fairly effective,' if no clinical trial: FauciSquawk Alley

2020/02/26, VIDEO10:1910:19Microsoft warns on coronavirus concernsFast MoneyMicrosoft shares fell 2% in extended trading on Wednesday after the company said it doesn't expect to meet the quarterly revenue guidance it previously provided for the segment that includes Windows.The move comes during a week that has seen a market selloff amid fears about the virus. Last week Apple disclosed that it did not expect to reach its own quarterly revenue guidance as a result of impact from COVID-19. Earlier this week HP, one of the biggest sellers of Windows PCs, said that corporate updates to Windows 10 could slip into future quarters."Although we see strong Windows demand in line with our expectations, the supply chain is returning to normal operations at a slower pace than anticipated at the time of our Q2 earnings call," Microsoft said in a statement. "As a result, for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, we do not expect to meet our More Personal Computing segment guidance as Windows OEM and Surface are more negatively impacted than previously anticipated."Windows OEM revenue, which derives from selling Windows licenses to device makers, includes licenses for commercial and non-commercial PCs. Revenue from licenses for commercial Windows devices represents 40% of Windows revenue, while revenue from licenses for non-commercial devices makes up about 20% of total Windows revenue.At $10.75 to $11.15 billion, Microsoft's guidance for the segment for the quarter was wider than usual specifically because of the public health situation that had been emerging in China. The company did not issue updated guidance. It said the other guidance it had provided for the fiscal third quarter, which ends on March 31, still stands.The More Personal Computing Segment accounted for about 36% of total revenue and about 30% of operating income in the fiscal second quarter. In addition to Windows and Surface, it includes PC accessories, gaming, search and MSN advertising.Shares of Intel, whose chips go in Windows PCs, moved 1% lower in extended trading after Microsoft made the announcement. Shares of Windows PC maker Dell were also 1% lower.Microsoft stock had declined 4.7% in the past week before the warning, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average has fallen 6.6% in the same period.

2019/12/12, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., departs the "Tech For Good" meeting at Elysee Palace in Paris, France, on Wednesday, May 23, 2018. A group of industry executives met with France's President Emmanuel Macron to discuss how to use technology to improve people's lives.Christophe Morin | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is staffing up in preparation for its work with the Defense Department, even as Amazon is in court protesting the Pentagon's decision, according to people familiar with the matter.In the more than six weeks since winning the Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, deal, which is worth up to $10 billion, Microsoft has been trying to lure talent from defense contractors and other companies and get employees the necessary authorization to work on the project, said the people, who asked not to be named because they're not authorized to speak on behalf of the company.Amazon has contested the Pentagon's decision to award the contract to its smaller cloud rival, citing in a lawsuit a bias on the part of President Donald Trump and repeated attacks against Amazon and CEO Jeff Bezos as evidence of an unfair process.But Microsoft isn't slowing down. Brad Smith, Microsoft's president and chief legal officer, told CNBC on Saturday that "we have if anything been moving even faster since that contract was awarded."Microsoft has a history with government contracts and has spent years going through the process of clearing employees for defense work, said two of the people. The company has hundreds of cleared engineers, one of the people said. But there are so many people in the pipeline that Microsoft faces an 18-month bottleneck getting current employees through the process, a different person said.Microsoft's website lists more than 100 openings for people with security clearances, though none mention JEDI by name. Openings are for positions including principal software engineering managers and principal program managers. In January, Microsoft plans to hold two recruiting events in Reston, Virginia, near the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency in Langley.VIDEO5:5505:55Amazon's cloud claim of being superior to Microsoft is valid, says Goldman's Heath TerrySquawk Alley"The Department of Defense is confident in the JEDI cloud contract award and remains focused on getting this critical capability into the hands of our warfighters as quickly and efficiently as possible," Pentagon spokesperson Elissa Smith said in an email. "The department's Cloud Computing Program Office continues to work with Microsoft to prepare the JEDI cloud environment."A Microsoft spokesperson declined to comment.As part of the internal recruiting process for Defense Department work, Microsoft regularly offers to pay for employee applications for security clearances, according to a person familiar with the process. The clearance brings with it a 20% to 30% salary increase, depending on the level of authorization and the employee's role, the person said, adding that not every employee will need clearance to contribute to JEDI.According to a court filing that became public on Monday, Amazon and the Defense Department have agreed that there's currently no reason to ask the court for a restraining order because the Pentagon has said it "will not proceed with performance of the JEDI contract beyond initial preparatory activities" until Feb. 11, 2020, at the earliest.The battle for JEDI has been hotly contested since 2018, when the Pentagon announced its plan for a $10 billion and 10-year upgrade to its IT operations. Amazon Web Services holds a commanding lead in cloud infrastructure, with 47.8% of the market, according to Gartner, and was widely considered the favorite to win JEDI, in part because of a big contract the company has had with the CIA since 2013. Microsoft Azure is a distant second, with 15.5% of the market.In Monday's court filing, Amazon asserted there was a "fundamental defect" in the procurement process. Early on, according to Amazon, Pentagon staffers observed the strengths of AWS offerings, but their views became more negative over time as Trump's bias became more evident."This abrupt change in course reflects the culmination of President Trump's improper interference and express direction to officials responsible for overseeing the award of the JEDI contract," Amazon wrote.— CNBC's Amanda Macias contributed to this report.WATCH: Microsoft President Brad Smith on tech and national securityVIDEO12:2912:29Microsoft President Brad Smith on tech and national securityFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/01/14, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., pauses while speaking during a Microsoft product event in New York, U.S., on Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2019.Mark Kauzlarich | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe National Security Agency alerted Microsoft in recent weeks to a significant issue affecting its Windows 10 operating system, ubiquitous within corporations and among consumers, two senior federal cybersecurity officials told CNBC.The flaw affected encryption of digital signatures used to authenticate content, including software or files. If exploited, the flaw could allow criminals to send malicious content with fake signatures that make it appear safe. The finding was reported earlier by The Washington Post."Patching like this, in general, should always be important, but the fact that the NSA is the one that disclosed this to Microsoft as well gave it some more importance," said Satnam Narang, a senior research engineer with cybersecurity company Tenable. Attackers often will steal security certificates in order to send a victim a malicious file that appears to be trustworthy, but with this flaw, the attacker can simply spoof the Microsoft certificate, making the process much easier, Narang said.It is unclear how long the NSA knew about the flaw before reporting it to Microsoft. The cooperation, however, is a departure from past interactions between the NSA and major software developers such as Microsoft. In the past, the top security agency has kept some major vulnerabilities secret in order to use them as part of the U.S. tech arsenal.In a statement, Microsoft declined to confirm or offer further details. "We follow the principles of coordinated vulnerability disclosure as the industry best practice to protect our customers from reported security vulnerabilities. To prevent unnecessary risk to customers, security researchers and vendors do not discuss the details of reported vulnerabilities before an update is available."Jeff Jones, a senior director at Microsoft said in a statement Tuesday: "Customers who have already applied the update, or have automatic updates enabled, are already protected. As always we encourage customers to install all security updates as soon as possible." Microsoft told CNBC that it had not seen any exploitation of the flaw "in the wild," which means outside a lab testing environment."I do want to stress that this information just dropped in the last hour, and it is still pretty fresh. So we are trying to fully grasp how this plays into the grand scheme of things," said Narang at Tenable, who wrote further about the flaw in a blog post today. "In the grand scheme of things, this is just another tool in the toolbox for attackers."Follow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.VIDEO5:4405:44Who's tracking you online?Power Lunch

2019/11/05, Microsoft Surface Pro XTodd Haselton | CNBCMicrosoft's Surface Pro X is the company's latest attempt to sell a computer that runs on an Arm-designed chip like the iPad and most cellphones, instead of the Intel-designed processor akin to the ones that have run most Windows personal computers since the very earliest days of personal computing.The idea is that this computer, which runs on a custom Microsoft SQ1 processor, built in partnership with Qualcomm, can deliver a really thin design with no fans, long battery life and cellular connectivity, while also running most of the traditional Windows apps people need. I've been testing it for the past several days.If this all sounds a bit familiar, that's because Microsoft has tried this same strategy before, first with the Surface RT computer in 2012 and again through a partnership with Nokia in 2013. Last year, I reviewed one of the first modern Windows on Arm computers built by HP and found that it still lagged behind Intel machines.Microsoft has made some improvements in the Surface Pro X, but it's not quite fulfilling all of Microsoft's promises.Since it doesn't run on a traditional Intel or Intel-compatible Arm processor, some of the apps you might rely on for work may not work. Because of that, and the $999 starting cost without the $139.99 Microsoft Type Cover keyboard, I don't expect this to fly off store shelves.Still, it's the best attempt yet at a new kind of Windows computer. And it's got a nicer design than the Surface Pro 7, which still uses an Intel chip.What's goodMicrosoft Surface Pro XTodd Haselton | CNBCI love the design of the Surface Pro X and wish Microsoft used the same big display with narrow edges on the new Intel-powered Surface Pro 7.The screen is big, bright and sharp. The speakers are great. The form factor is similar to the Surface Pro 7, too, with an optional keyboard (it costs $269.99 with the optional Surface Pro Pen or $139.99 without it) that attaches to the bottom and allows the tablet to double as a full laptop.This year, Microsoft hid the new Surface Pen inside the top of the keyboard in a tiny pocket where it charges. It's a bit of genius, since this little area also makes it hard to lose the pen in a bag.The device is thinner than the Surface Pro 7 but has a similar kickstand that pops out from the back to help keep it sturdy.Microsoft Surface Pro XTodd Haselton | CNBCA small panel in the back opens up allowing you to swap in more storage or pop in a SIM card. I added a T-Mobile SIM and had cellular connectivity in just seconds, something that you can't do with almost any other computer on the market. This lets you connect to the internet when you don't have Wi-Fi.Microsoft's Windows Hello, a facial recognition system that lets you unlock the computer, continues to impress me. The camera identifies my face and unlocks the computer right when I sit down, almost instantly, similar to how I unlock my iPhone and iPad. It means you don't need to spend time typing in a long password.I also love that it charges fully in just an hour — my MacBook Air takes about 3 hours to charge. And, if you want, you can use a USB-C charger instead of the included power brick, which is convenient for people like me who want to carry a single charger for multiple devices.OK, so the elephant in the room: Windows 10 on Arm. I've been a big critic of this approach in the past, since I really don't like having to think about whether an app is going to work on my computer or not. But, Microsoft has done a good job adding support for older apps. It's not perfect yet, but it's getting there.Microsoft Surface Pro XTodd Haselton | CNBCI was able to download and run most of what I use regularly. Spotify and Netflix are in the Windows Store (though those usually work just fine in a browser anyway). The Google Chrome browser downloaded and worked flawlessly. Microsoft Office is, of course, available. I even tried running a game from 1997 called Ultima Online that wasn't designed to work on an Arm-based computer. Microsoft, in this case, runs those older apps (technically called 32-bit x86 apps) in an emulator. It's seamless, and you don't even realize they weren't supposed to run on this machine.Some apps you might need for work or school still don't work yet, however. Let's talk a bit about that.What's badMicrosoft Surface Pro XTodd Haselton | CNBCWindows 10 on Arm generally looks and feels like Windows 10 on any other computer. But it isn't the same as the regular version of Windows 10 that most apps were designed to run on.That means you might run into trouble, as I did, if you need a specific app for corporate VPN access. The app I needed didn't run on the Surface Pro X. You should make sure your school or office will let you connect first.Then there are other apps that just don't work.Adobe's Creative Suite, which includes Photoshop, doesn't run on the Surface Pro X. It might eventually, since Adobe just launched Photoshop on the iPad, but it's not here yet. If you rely on specific 3D rendering, financial or video editing apps, you should make sure they're supported before you buy the Surface Pro X.You'll see this error sometimes if your app isn't supported.Todd Haselton | CNBCThere isn't some single universal web site you can just go check to see if they'll work, either. You just need to try installing them one by one to see if they fail. Or, you can try to teach yourself a bit about 32-bit x86 and 64-bit x64 compatibility and check to see if the apps you use will run on this machine by visiting each app's website. In some cases you won't find the information.The problem here is most people buying a new computer assume it's going to run every Windows app just fine. People considering the Surface Pro X need to know that's simply not the case.I also have a few quibbles with the design.Microsoft Surface Pro XTodd Haselton | CNBCOne of the big promises of using an Arm machine is all-day battery life. But the Surface Pro X didn't seem to last any longer than my MacBook Air, even after promising up to 13 hours of battery life. After using it at my desk for a couple of hours with the screen at half-brightness, it dropped down to 86 percent battery life. That's not really all-day battery. But it was able to idle without draining much, which is good if you're worried about the battery draining while it's in your bag.The keyboard is just OK. It's mushy when you press down on it and flexes a lot, which is expected on portable like this. I still prefer the sturdier feel of the one on Microsoft's Surface Laptop 3. I like that the keyboard is backlit, though, and I like the large and clicky (albeit loud) glass trackpad, too.Finally, the Surface Pro X's kickstand is still terrible if you want to use the computer in your lap. I felt like I was constantly trying to balance it.Should you buy the Microsoft Surface Pro X?Microsoft Surface Pro XTodd Haselton | CNBCThe Surface Pro X is a gorgeous computer that's truly great to use. I love that it charges fast using the Surface Connect Port, connects to cellular networks anywhere I go, has a beautiful screen and generally works for pretty much everything I need, except my work VPN software.But it's hard to recommend because it's so expensive and, if you buy one, you run the risk of not being able to run apps you might need for work or school. My review unit, for example, costs $1,499 with 16GB of RAM and 256GB of hard drive space. Add in the keyboard and pencil and it costs $1,769.98 before tax. Even if you buy the entry-level $999 machine and just the keyboard, you're spending $1,138.99.Those are prices I can only stomach if I know they'll work with everything.The good news is that Microsoft is making far more progress than I thought on the Windows on Arm front. It seems developers are working to add support for this platform more than ever before. In 2012 the Surface RT was a mess because it couldn't run apps most people needed. Seven years later, I'm finally understanding what Microsoft is trying to achieve.As it continues to build on this idea, I expect more computers that cost less will start to hit the market. And then maybe we'll start to see machines that fulfill the promise of all-day battery life, cellular connectivity and really thin designs at affordable price points. We're just not there yet.VIDEO5:0205:02First look at Microsoft's new folding phone the Surface DuoTechFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech product news.

2020/01/17, Microsoft's new Teams ad campaign.McCannMicrosoft is launching a major new ad campaign for Teams, its work-communication app, which has been duking it out with Slack for dominance in the workplace.A new global ad campaign from Microsoft will aim to sell "The Power of Teams," juxtaposing old-school conference room meetings, complete with packets of printed-out charts and spilled coffee as phones are passed, versus what the company pitches as a new way of working. The company worked with its agency, Interpublic's McCann, on the campaign. It will launch in the U.S. on Sunday during the NFL playoffs and will include TV ads, podcasts, digital and out-of-home placements. The campaign will launch in February in the U.K., France and Germany.Slack shares dropped after CNBC reported news of the Microsoft ad campaign, and are now down more than 2% on the day.Teams, which launched in 2016, is a collaboration tool that offers chat, meetings, calling and file collaboration. Microsoft said in November that it had more than 20 million daily active users, a 54% increase from its prior announcement about usage and apparently more than Slack, which said in October it had 12 million daily active users. That raised some questions from analysts (and Slack) about what Microsoft considers an active user, but the tech giant argued its metrics were fair, saying that just because Teams is installed on a PC and automatically opens on start-up doesn't mean the person gets counted as a user.Jared Spataro, the company's Corporate VP for Microsoft 365, said that even with 20 million people using Teams, it's "still on the front end of the adoption curve.""The campaign is designed to expand awareness and familiarity with Teams so more people can experience its ability to change the way they work," he said in an email.Slack commented on Microsoft's campaign on Friday afternoon."This will definitely drive awareness that there's a better way to work together than email, and that's great — this is a new category, we're at the very tip of the market, and we want more and more people to know there's an alternative to email," a Slack spokesperson told CNBC. The company added that "Slack is being used by hundreds of thousands of active users inside our biggest customers every day — it's the first thing they check in the morning and the last thing they use before they sign off for the day."Microsoft is a major global advertiser, spending $1.6 billion in global advertising in the fiscal year 2019, according to the company's annual report. The company declined to disclose any specifics about the spending on the Teams campaign.VIDEO0:3700:37Microsoft claims Teams bigger than SlackClosing Bell— CNBC's Deirdre Bosa contributed to this report.Disclosure: Comcast Ventures, the venture arm of Comcast, is an investor in Slack. Comcast owns CNBC parent company NBCUniversal.Follow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech and advertising industry news.

2020/01/16, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella addresses a news conference in Berlin, Germany February 27, 2019.Fabrizio Bensch | ReutersMicrosoft said on Thursday it aims to remove more carbon from the atmosphere than it emits by 2030 and that by 2050, it hopes to have taken out enough to account for all the direct emissions the company has ever made.The focus on removing existing carbon from the atmosphere sets Microsoft's climate goals apart from other corporate pledges which have focused on cutting ongoing emissions or preventing future ones.Speaking from a stage at Microsofts headquarters in Redmond, Washington, Chief Executive Satya Nadella said that corporations need to create profitable solutions for the problems of both people and planet.If the last decade has taught us anything, its that technology built without these principles can do more harm than good, he said. We must begin to offset the damaging effects of climate change, he said, adding if global temperatures continue to rise unabated the results will be devastating.The announcement by the world's largest software company is the latest in a flurry of climate goals set out by firms after President Donald Trump announced in 2017 his decision to pull the United States out of the Paris Agreement, the global pact to fight climate change.Microsoft plans to cut its carbon emissions by more than half by 2030 across its supply chain. The plan includes the creation of a "Climate Innovation Fund," which will invest $1 billion over the next four years to speed up the development of carbon removal technology.The effort "will require technology by 2030 that doesn't fully exist today," Microsoft President Brad Smith said.He added that Microsoft will also expand an internal fee that it has charged to its business groups to account for their carbon emissions.Since 2012, Microsoft assessed the fee on direct emissions, electricity use and air travel, among other activities, but will expand it to cover all Microsoft-related emissions.That money is used, then, for us to invest in our work to reduce our carbon emissions, he said.Co-founder Bill Gates was an early backer of British Columbia-based Carbon Engineering, one of a handful of companies developing direct air capture technology.Microsoft's goal to have removed enough carbon by 2050 to account for all its emissions since its founding in 1975 encompasses direct emissions from sources such as company vehicles and indirect emissions from electricity use, it said.But even as technology companies have stepped in with their own climate goal plans, they have faced criticism from their employees for doing too little.Amazon, the world's largest online retailer, last year pledged to be "net zero carbon" by 2040 and to buy 100,000 electric delivery vans from a startup, after employee activists pushed the retailer to take a tougher stance on climate change.Microsoft plans to become net zero carbon a decade earlier than Amazon, although this is in part because its emissions are roughly a third less.Microsoft expects to release 16 million metric tons of CO2 in 2020, including indirect emissions from activities like corporate travel.Amazon runs a bigger cloud business than Microsoft and a massive retail and logistics organization, with packaging, delivery and customer trips to its chain of Whole Foods stores all piling on to its carbon footprint. Including indirect sources, it emitted more than 44 million metric tons of carbon in 2018.It was not immediately clear if the figures reported by the companies were exactly comparable.Both Microsoft and Amazon have come under fire from activist tech workers who have demanded they stop supplying technology to oil and gas companies. Microsoft in 2017 announced a multi-year deal to sell cloud services to U.S. energy giant Chevron.In a blog post, Microsoft on Thursday reiterated its commitment to working with oil and gas companies."Its imperative that we enable energy companies to transition, including to renewable energy and to the development and use of negative emission technologies like carbon capture and storage and direct air capture," Microsoft said.

2020/02/25, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during a meeting of the Economic Club of Washington in Washington on Oct. 4, 2017.Zach Gibson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe coronavirus could delay an anticipated bump in Microsoft's Windows revenue, as PC makers delay building new business computers that come with the operating system.Microsoft, a key driver of the S&P 500, benefited from strong sales of Windows licenses for business PCs, as companies rushed to upgrade their hardware before Microsoft stopped supporting Windows 7 in January.That trend should continue, but factory work stoppages in China could delay sales into later quarters. For Microsoft, 15% of revenue comes from Windows, and 40% of Windows revenue comes from licenses for commercial devices.Microsoft issued wider-than-usual first-quarter guidance for the More Personal Computing segment that contains Windows on January 29 to acknowledge dynamics in China, finance chief Amy Hood told analysts on a conference call. Single-digit revenue growth in the More Personal Computing segment should reflect the demand for Windows 10 and the end of support for Windows 7, Hood said.Apple had also provided wider revenue guidance than usual in January in connection with coronavirus. Then, on February 17, the company said it didn't expect to achieve the guidance. Microsoft declined to comment on whether it would update its guidance before the next time it reports earnings."I think what's important is, if you try to take out, which is challenging, some of the comments we've had on either chip supply constraints or some of the uncertainty related to the public health situation in China, you would say what we have in terms of what the cycle would look like compared to prior cycle ends would actually be quite similar," Hood said on Microsoft's earnings call last month.PC makers have given several recent clues that the cycle might not continue as normal.First, HP warned that production constraints may push out some business upgrades to the second half of the year."Ironically I think the coronavirus may ultimately push out some of the Windows 10 refresh timelines given some of the constraints we're going to see in Q2," HP finance chief Steve Fieler said on a conference call to discuss the company's fiscal first-quarter results on Monday. "So that could support a better second half than we originally anticipated."HP still expects coronavirus to negatively impact the company's top and bottom lines in the fiscal second quarter, with activity in China affecting both supply and demand, Fieler said.HP is the second-largest PC maker behind Lenovo, according to Gartner and IDC.Lenovo CEO Yuanqing Yang said on a conference call on Thursday that most of its factories in China had reopened, but similarly warned that supplies would be constrained this quarter.."Demand worldwide on PC is still very, very good," Lenovo operating chief Gianfranco Lanci said. "And probably in Q1, the entire market, the entire industry will not have enough supply."Dell, the third-largest PC vendor, will report earnings on Thursday.VIDEO4:4004:40HP adopts 'poison pill' to fend off Xerox's takeover attemptSquawk on the Street

2020/01/13, Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaSean Gallup | Getty ImagesCredit Suisse raised its price target on Microsoft shares after the firm's survey of executives suggests a "strong 2020" for the technology giant, especially in the realm of cloud computing services.Microsoft's Azure was the top pick among information technology companies looking to spend more on a cloud service, according to Credit Suisse's survey of chief information officers (CIOs)."Our analysis suggests Microsoft can reasonably achieve Commercial Cloud revenues of $100 Billion" by fiscal year 2024, Credit Suisse analyst Brad Zelnick said in a note to investors.Microsoft shares rose 1.2% in trading to close at $163.28.

2019/10/02, VIDEO3:5203:52Microsoft unveils Surface Neo two-screened laptop, for 2020 releaseSquawk AlleyMicrosoft surprised onlookers with a pair of new dual-screen hardware devices it's planning to release next holiday: The Surface Neo laptop and the Duo smartphone, which runs Google's Android operating system rather than Microsoft Windows.The announcements came at the end of Microsoft's annual hardware event, where it also introduced refreshed versions of its Surface tablets and laptops, and a new Surface that runs a Qualcomm low-powered chip based on a design from ARM — similar to those found in Apple's iPad and most smartphones — rather than the Intel-based processors that traditionally run Windows PCs. It's the third time Microsoft has unveiled an ARM-based tablet, but its past efforts failed at market because they could not efficiently run traditional Windows apps."With the Surface we focused on three distinct ambitions," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said. "We wanted to put people at the center of every device experience. We wanted to innovate across form and function, especially with a focus on how we can drive the next level of creation and productivity. That led to the first Surface Pro 2-in-1. Today we will share the next chapter of this journey," Nadella said. "We believe the next decade will be about creation and amplifying what we can do as humans."Microsoft's event follows a flurry of hardware announcements from rivals like Apple, Amazon and Samsung. The launches allow the companies to get their products out in front of consumers before the upcoming holiday shopping season.Here's a rundown of everything that was announced:The big surprise: Microsoft Surface Duo phoneMicrosoft had its annual product event on Wednesday.The biggest surprise was a small smartphone that can run two apps on two different screens. It's called the Microsoft Surface Duo and runs Android, and will be available in the 2020 holiday season.It's the first return for Microsoft to the mobile space since it abandoned Windows Phone years ago. "Make no mistake, this product is a Surface," said Microsoft product chief Panos Panay, "because of how productive you can be on it. We know, scientifically, that you will be more productive on two screens."It has a 360-degree hinge, two 5.6-inch displays and can completely fold up when you're not using it."We're partnering with Google to bring the absolute best of Android into one product," Panay said, noting it will support all Android apps. Unlike the Samsung Galaxy Fold, which also folds, a hinge runs down the middle, which should prevent damage, since there's not a single screen across the entire inside.Coming next year: Surface NeoThe Surface Neo folds open and has two screens.Microsoft also teased the Surface Neo, a product that it will launch next holiday season. Panay admitted he was nervous to show it off to the press."Over the years, these technologies and this company has together as one to create unique and amazing products," Panay said. But as we think about the future of Microsoft, in a world that's more mobile, more cloud based, where the line blurs more between home, life and work, we wanted to make a product that felt smaller. Today, we wanted to introduce you to a product that I believe is the next category," he said.The Surface Neo also has a touchscreen display above the keyboard.The Surface Neo has two displays that fold together but also work independently of one another, so you can run an app in one screen and another app on the second display. Or, you can use one app across the entire screen. When you need to type, there's a hardware keyboard that pops out, complete with a trackpad, so you don't have to try to tap-type on a touchscreen display. When it's not in use, the keyboard sticks to the back of the tablet with magnets.Microsoft unveiled the new Neo laptop.The whole device is 5.6mm thin and uses the thinnest LCD ever created, but is surrounded by Gorilla Glass to help keep it strong. Unlike the Galaxy Fold, the hinge in the middle splits the two displays, so there's a break in the screen, which some may find distracting.The dual-screen Surface Neo.The Surface Neo will run a new version of Windows designed for these types of devices, called Windows 10X, which can support two apps running on different screens, smartly bring up the keyboard when needed and support for writing on the screen with the Surface Pen.The Neo runs on an Intel Lakefield processor, which helps allow Microsoft to keep the Neo thin. Microsoft expects devices like Neo to be the "next category," of devices Panay said. But Panay admitted he needs to get the devices into "developers hands as soon as possible" so that they can start to build apps and experiences that work on the unique form factor.It looks a lot like a small book, but it's a full computer. It's probably the most compelling device Microsoft revealed on Wednesday, even if it was just a teaser for a product coming next year.Microsoft Surface Pro XMicrosoft debuted the new Surface Pro X computer.Microsoft also unveiled a new Qualcomm-powered Surface for its Windows on ARM platform, the Surface Pro X, which has a 13-inch screen and works like the Surface Pro, as a two-in-one, with a detachable keyboard.Microsoft unveiled a redesigned Surface Slim Pen.The Surface Pro X is only 5.33mm thick at its thinnest point and is very light at 1.68 pounds. Despite this, there are still features pro-users look for, like a removable hard drive. A custom chip with AI adds fun features, like simulating eye contact during video calls, which is either a bit creepy or useful if you talk to people who don't always look at the camera. Microsoft also added a new Slim Surface Pen that charges in a small dock above the keyboard, too. This is big, since Microsoft hasn't updated the design of its pen in several years.The Surface Pro X features a 13-inch display.The Qualcomm chip provides 7W of power, far more than earlier ARM chipsets that only offered 2W of power. That has been a big issue traditionally for ARM computers, which feel slower than devices with Intel or AMD chips. Microsoft also promises better battery life. One issue Microsoft will need to address: support for older more traditional apps which weren't designed to work with ARM processors.Surface Pro X preorders begin today for $999 and it ships Nov. 5.Microsoft Surface EarbudsMicrosoft unveiled the Surface Earbuds.Microsoft followed up the Surface Headphones from last year with new Surface Earbuds, which will compete with AirPods. They offer 24 hours of battery life and "work on any platform," according to Microsoft. Gesture controls let you play, pause, skip or change the volume.Microsoft's Robin Seiler unveils the new Surface Earbuds.They also work with Microsoft Office and support over 60 languages, so they can translate as you speak and input voice-to-text into documents and PowerPoint presentations, or when you talk to other people in real-time. They'll ship later this year for $249.Surface Laptop 3 and Surface Pro 7Microsoft's Robin Seiler shows off the Surface Pro 7.Alongside all the brand new products, Microsoft also unveiled updates to its traditional Surface products, which have developed a strong following as the standard reference products running the latest versions of Windows.Microsoft unveiled the Surface Laptop 3.Annie Palmer | CNBCPanay kicked off the event by introducing the Surface Laptop 3, which will ship in 13.5-inch and 15-inch sizes.That means, this year, Microsoft is going directly after the Apple MacBook Air and the larger MacBook Pro. The Surface Laptop 3 is made out of aluminum and has a soft touch area around the keyboard, but Microsoft will also sell a model without any soft touch area around the keyboard that doesn't have a soft-touch finish. Panay said Microsoft increased the size of the touchpad to help improve productivity.Panos Panay, Microsoft's Chief Product Officer, debuts the new Surface Laptop 3.The Surface Laptop 3 uses Intel's latest 10th generation processor, which Panay said is 2x faster than the chips in the Surface Laptop 2 from last year. Panay said it's 3x more powerful than a MacBook Air. AMD will offer graphics inside with a special AMD Ryzen Surface Edition graphics chip. "This is the most powerful mobile processor AMD has ever created," Panay said. "We co-engineered this entire platform alongside AMD, from the silicon to hardware and through Windows."The laptop is also easy to repair, according to Panay.Panay says you still get "all day battery life" and that fast charging will be included. The Surface Laptop 3 can charge up to 80% in less than an hour, he said, noting that fast charging will be available in all of the Surface products Microsoft will unveil today.The Surface Laptop 3 is available for pre-order starting Oct. 22.The 13-inch starts at $999 and the 15-inch starts at $1199. Both are available for pre-order now and they launch Oct.22.There's also a new version of Microsoft's tablet/laptop hybrid, the Surface Pro 7. It looks an awful lot like last year's model. One big change this year: a new USB-C port, which users have been asking for since it can enable faster data transfers and works with modern devices, like phones, that also use the new standard. Like previous models, users can connect a "Type Cover" to the tablet to use it in a laptop form factor, with a kickstand in the back.Microsoft debuts the Surface Pro 7.The Surface Pro 7 works with Microsoft's Surface Pen, which lets you edit documents, sketch on the screen and more. IT also now works with Excel for easier edits to spreadsheets. Microsoft improved the microphones on the Surface Pro 7 to work better with the Your Phone app, which means you can accept calls from your phone and talk to people right on your laptop. This is a Windows feature, however, so it's not just limited to the Surface Pro 7.Preorders open today for $749 but Microsoft does not typically offer a keyboard in that price, or the Surface Pen, so expect to pay more if you want those.VIDEO3:2703:27Microsoft president Brad Smith: Powerful companies have more responsibilitySquawk Box

2020/01/13, Microsoft CEO Satya NadellaSean Gallup | Getty ImagesCredit Suisse raised its price target on Microsoft shares after the firm's survey of executives suggests a "strong 2020" for the technology giant, especially in the realm of cloud computing services.Microsoft's Azure was the top pick among information technology companies looking to spend more on a cloud service, according to Credit Suisse's survey of chief information officers (CIOs)."Our analysis suggests Microsoft can reasonably achieve Commercial Cloud revenues of $100 Billion" by fiscal year 2024, Credit Suisse analyst Brad Zelnick said in a note to investors.Microsoft shares rose 1.2% in trading to close at $163.28.

2020/04/30, VIDEO0:0100:01Xbox head Phil Spencer on the surge in demand for Xbox LiveSquawk AlleyMicrosoft executive vice president of gaming and head of Xbox Phil Spencer said coronavirus won't impact when Microsoft launches its next-gen game console. Instead, the outbreak may affect the new games that are supposed to be released in the coming months."Overall, I think we're in line with where we thought we would be," he said while discussing the new Xbox Series X on Thursday during CNBC's "Squawk Alley." "I'd say the bigger unknown is probably the game production," he added ."Game production is a large scale entertainment activity now, you have hundreds of people coming together, building assets, working through creative."Spencer said he's still confident about the current state of game development but that the security and safety of his teams are top priority. Microsoft won't "push when things just aren't ready," he said.Microsoft's next game console is called the Xbox Series X. It will compete with Sony's PlayStation 5. There had been concerns in recent weeks that supply disruptions from the coronavirus outbreak could delay the releases of next-gen game consoles.Much of those concerns have shifted towards companies' game pipelines as publishers have started to delay release dates on some of the most highly-anticipated games of the year. With developers at home, some game releases have already been pushed back.Sony, for example, revealed earlier this month that it was delaying the release of "The Last of Us 2" to an undetermined date as the virus has put pressure on the production and distribution of games. It's one of the biggest titles set to launch in 2020.The next installment of the infamous Halo series, Halo Infinite, is set for release in Q4 2020 to go with the upcoming Xbox Series X. So far, that isn't delayed.Gaming is soaring right nowMicrosoft's next-generation Xbox Series X console.MicrosoftGaming engagement has surged as consumers socially distance and stay at home, with Verizon reporting in March that U.S. video game usage had soared 75% since restrictions were imposed.Xbox has been one of the direct benefactors of that surge. Microsoft said in its earnings on Tuesday that Xbox Live now has 90 million monthly users and Xbox Game Pass, Microsoft's subscription video game service, has surpassed 10 million subscribers.While there may be some moderation that occurs as states begin to reopen and stay-at-home orders start to ease, Spencer pointed to the strength of the industry prior to the pandemic as a sign that consumers will continue to play games."It's really just becoming a strong social fabric in the home at a time of need," he said.

2019/10/25, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks at the Digital-Life-Design conference in Munich, Germany, on January 16, 2017.Tobias Hase | dpa | Getty ImagesMicrosoft has emerged victorious in a dramatic competition for public cloud resources for the U.S. Defense Department, beating out market leader Amazon Web Services, the Pentagon said on Friday. The contract could be worth as much as $10 billion over a decade, according to a statement.Microsoft stock rose as much as 3% in extended trading after the announcement, and Amazon stock dipped less than 1%.The achievement highlights the emergence of Microsoft's Azure cloud as a challenger to AWS and represents the latest victory for Satya Nadella, who took over from Steve Ballmer as Microsoft chief in 2014. Microsoft has also won major cloud-infrastructure deals from companies like Walmart even as AWS has kept growing."For over 40 years, Microsoft has delivered innovative, proven and secure technologies to the US Department of Defense. We brought our best efforts to the rigorous JEDI evaluation process and appreciate that DoD has chosen Microsoft," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Saturday. "We are proud that we are an integral partner in DoD's overall mission cloud strategy. As was articulated throughout the JEDI procurement, the DoD has a singular objective -- to deploy the most innovative and secure commercially available technology to satisfy the urgent and critical needs of today's warfighters."If the Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure deal, known by the acronym JEDI, ends up being worth $10 billion, it would likely be a bigger deal to Microsoft than it would have been to Amazon. Microsoft does not disclose Azure revenue in dollar figures but it's widely believed to have a smaller share of the market than Amazon, which received $9 billion in revenue from AWS in the third quarter.Early in the process Amazon was seen as the favorite, partly because its AWS business won a deal with the CIA in 2013. Also Amazon had been certified at the highest existing security clearance level, while Microsoft sought to catch up.Other, smaller cloud rivals like IBM and Oracle were kicked out earlier in the process, which has been contentious and delayed.In July, President Trump said he was looking at the contract after companies had protested the bidding process.While Trump didn't cite Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos by name at the time, the billionaire executive has been a constant source of frustration for the president. Bezos owns The Washington Post, which Trump regularly criticizes for its coverage of his administration. Trump also has gone after Amazon repeatedly on other fronts, such as claiming it does not pay its fair share of taxes and rips off the U.S. Post Office.In August, Defense Secretary Mark Esper said that he would look at it. Then, earlier this week, the Pentagon said that Esper had removed himself from the process because his son Luke Esper works at IBM.Wedbush analyst Dan Ives called the deal a "game changer" for Microsoft, writing in a note to clients that the deal "will have a ripple effect for the company's cloud business for years to come." He also said that he expects Amazon to challenge the outcome in court, but for Microsoft to prevail.Nadella once ran the Azure business, among other responsibilities in his 27-year career at Microsoft. He has made cloud a bigger piece of Microsoft while decreasing the emphasis on Windows. The company has also embraced Linux, and after Nadella joined, the cloud was renamed from Windows Azure to Microsoft Azure, reflecting that it's possible to run Linux in Microsoft's public cloud."We're surprised about this conclusion," an AWS spokesperson told CNBC in an email. "AWS is the clear leader in cloud computing, and a detailed assessment purely on the comparative offerings clearly lead to a different conclusion. We remain deeply committed to continuing to innovate for the new digital battlefield where security, efficiency, resiliency, and scalability of resources can be the difference between success and failure."VIDEO3:0503:05President Trump: We will look closely at Amazon contract with PentagonThe ExchangeFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/12/24, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff in 2014.Source: MicrosoftThe 2010s were the decade where companies got serious about moving everything to the cloud.Dropbox and Slack became household names, Salesforce gained enterprise ubiquity, and Microsoft and Adobe revitalized their businesses by shifting from packaged software to cloud-based subscriptions, lifting their stock prices to record highs.Formerly a side project, Amazon Web Services now generates $35 billion in annual revenue by allowing clients to offload their storage and computing needs to a third party, while ServiceNow, whose technology helps IT managers improve productivity, joined the S&P 500 last month after its market cap topped $50 billion.In the past, companies, schools and government agencies operated their own data centers and bought expensive licenses to use software on their equipment, adding in hefty maintenance and update fees. The cloud changed all that, switching the applications that employees use every day as well as all the underlying databases, servers and communications equipment into services that can be delivered remotely to a host of devices over powerful networks. Customer service was upgraded, with a focus on user feedback, to keep clients from quitting their subscriptions and moving to rivals.For investors, the paradigm shift presented an opportunity to put money into older companies positioned to make the transition, as well as a whole new crop of start-ups poised to take market share from the legacy providers. Slack, Twilio, Zoom and Okta were all founded in 2008 or later and are each now valued at over $10 billion on the public market. A bunch more are in the $5 billion range, and more still are filling up the IPO pipeline for 2020 and beyond.Brad Gerstner, founder of Altimeter Capital, counts Salesforce as one of his top holdings and was a venture investor in Okta and Twilio. In a TV interview this month alongside Okta co-founder Frederic Kerrest, Gerstner told CNBC that the big bet has paid off."It really comes down to something that we talked about nearly a decade ago," said Gerstner, whose firm oversees more than $5 billion in assets, referring to his initial conversations with Okta. "We have a once in — probably our lifetime — rearchitecture of the entire enterprise stack into the cloud."VIDEO4:2904:29Okta co-founder on future of enterprise software and going publicHalftime ReportAccording to Synergy Research, 2019 revenue from enterprise software-as-a-service (SaaS) will exceed $100 billion, up from less than $4 billion in 2009. Adding up all layers of the stack, from the underlying infrastructure to the applications, IT service firm Gartner says cloud revenue will end the year at $214.3 billion, jumping to $331.2 billion by 2022.In a $3.7 trillion global IT market with low single-digit expansion, annual cloud growth of greater than 15% is leading investors to bid up the cloud standouts in both the public and private markets.Microsoft's big moveIf you're looking for the poster child of the cloud evolution, you may find it on the outskirts of Seattle.In 2014, facing sluggish growth and disappointing investor returns, Microsoft turned to Satya Nadella to succeed Steve Ballmer as CEO, the first change at the top in 14 years. Nadella, who had previously run Microsoft's cloud and enterprise group, told employees on day one of his tenure, "Our job is to ensure that Microsoft thrives in a mobile and cloud-first world."Weeks later Nadella announced that Office apps were coming to Apple iPads, giving customers more flexibility and showing that it was a new day at Microsoft. Office 365, the cloud version of Microsoft's flagship product, was launched in 2011, but the Apple integration was critical in bringing Word, Excel, PowerPoint and SharePoint to people who were choosing a competitor's hardware.By 2017, commercial revenue for Office 365 had exceeded Office license revenue."I think the biggest event of the decade was Microsoft launching Office 365," said Todd McKinnon, CEO and co-founder of Okta who previously spent five years at Salesforce. "It was very clear that the largest software company in the world is saying, 'Cloud is good, Cloud will work, Cloud is sanctioned.' It changed the mindset of the IT industry."Okta Conference hosts Facebook VP of Platform Partnerships Sean Ryan, Slack VP of Product April Underwood, Okta CEO Todd McKinnon, Box CEO Aaron Levie Zoom, and CEO Eric Yuan and moderator Brad StoneSource: Harriet TaylorMcKinnon saw the movement firsthand. His company provides identity management software so businesses can securely control all of the cloud applications that employees are using."Companies of every size and every industry that we'd been having conversations with for years came back to us and said, 'This is real, this is happening, we need a real identity story,'" McKinnon said.Meanwhile, Microsoft was also building Azure, its cloud infrastructure service that would eventually become the clear No. 2 to AWS, attracting as customers large retailers, health-care providers, banks and the U.S. Department of Defense along the way. Microsoft doesn't disclose Azure revenue, but it does report growth, which reached 59% in the third quarter.Since the end of 2009, Microsoft's stock has jumped 417%, beating the S&P 500's 189% gain. This year it became the third company to reach a $1 trillion market capitalization.Amazon isn't far behind at $889 billion, as of Monday's close. Much of Amazon's 1,233% stock surge over the last decade can be attributed to AWS, which in the latest quarter accounted for 71% of its parent company's operating income and 13% of revenue. Analysts at Jefferies said in a November report that AWS could be worth about 40% of the company's market cap, and the unit has gotten so big that it's now reportedly attracting antitrust scrutiny.Salesforce, the company most synonymous with SaaS, has also taken advantage of investments made by the infrastructure players. In 2016, Salesforce said it would use AWS to expand its Sales Cloud and Service Cloud internationally and has since announced plans to use some services from Google and Microsoft's cloud.'Unshackle our product teams'While Salesforce is the biggest company that was born in the cloud, Adobe is the largest software maker to transition the majority of its business to the new model. Investors have rewarded the company, pushing the stock up ninefold since the beginning of the decade.In 2009, subscriptions represented 3% of revenue. Two years later, Adobe introduced Creative Cloud, ushering in monthly and annual plans for access to apps like PhotoShop, along with cloud storage. Now, subscriptions account for about 90% of sales, and the company is growing at rates not seen since 1991."What we were able to do in terms of moving to this new way of delivering software was unshackle our product teams from the burdens of delivering products every 12 or 18 months and they could deliver at the pace at which they could innovate," CEO Shantanu Narayen said at Adobe's financial analyst meeting in November. "We were able to attract new customers to the platform, we were able to price these products globally differently."Autodesk was founded in 1982, just like Adobe. It's undertaken a similar endeavor, moving its popular design and architecture software to the cloud. Carl Bass, Autodesk's CEO from 2006 to 2017, said in 2013 that the company "can get pretty close to subscriptions being the vast majority of our business."He was proven right. In the most recent quarter, subscriptions accounted for 85% of sales, pushing total revenue up 28% from a year earlier. The stock has gained 620% since the end of 2009.As Microsoft, Adobe and Autodesk were revamping their businesses, new venture-backed SaaS vendors were popping up by the month, unbundling the old software suites with targeted applications and solutions. The attrition rate has been high, but there are notable successes.Videoconferencing company Zoom, which went public this year, reported revenue growth of 85% in the most recent quarter to $166.6 million. Twilio, a provider of communications infrastructure that went public in 2016, generated growth of 75% to $295.1 million in the third quarter. Newly public companies Elastic, Smartsheet and Coupa each reported growth in excess of 50%.They're among the top performers in the BVP Nasdaq Emerging Cloud Index, a group of public companies that get most of their revenue from cloud products and services. Venture capital firm Bessemer Venture Partners launched the index in 2013 to bring more attention to cloud companies and provide metrics so private cloud companies could better understand public markets.The index has risen 458% since it was formed, topping the Nasdaq's 146% jump over that stretch. In September, asset manager WisdomTree launched the WisdomTree Cloud Computing Fund, making it possible for people to bet on the group."We'd get tweets every week of, 'How can I trade this? How can I trade this?'" said Byron Deeter, who invests in cloud at Bessemer and sits on Twilio's board.Winners and losersRob Bernshteyn, CEO of Coupa, has been tracking cloud software since its infancy. While working at Siebel Systems in the early 2000s, he met Salesforce co-founder Marc Benioff and was skeptical of whether the company could provide cloud-based technology for many different purposes without extensive customization, even though Salesforce was already winning deals against Siebel."It wasn't really definitively clear to me that it could really work," Bernshteyn said in an interview at Coupa's Silicon Valley headquarters, where the server closets are filled with beanbags that employees use as chairs.Over time, Bernshteyn said Salesforce fixed its technical issues. He considered joining the company but went to a younger cloud software provider called SuccessFactors, which was later acquired by SAP.Bernshteyn left in 2009, in the middle of the financial crisis, and joined a small start-up that was helping companies track their spending to make sure they weren't being fleeced by vendors. That company, Coupa, is now worth over $9 billion and generating revenue of over $100 million a quarter.But not all cloud stocks have delivered for investors.Dropbox is 15% below its IPO price from 2018. Growth at the one-time venture darling has slowed amid competition from Google and Microsoft in the cloud storage and collaboration market.Business intelligence software company Domo is up just 10% from its IPO in mid-2018 and way below where it was valued in the private markets before the offering. Yext, whose service helps businesses keep information like their addresses and hours up to date on Google and Amazon Alexa, is up 32% since its debut in 2017, underperforming the major indexes.At 22% and 30% sales growth, respectively, Domo and Yext are expanding at a slower pace than many of their cloud counterparts, while still racking up big losses. It's a tough recipe for investors.Yext CEO Howard Lerman is bullish on the broader sector. "Obviously at some point over the next decade, spending on cloud software will surpass licensed software," he said.For venture investors, there's also plenty of money still to be made, assuming the public markets are on board. Deeter of Bessmer Ventures said there are 66 private cloud companies worth more than $1 billion."That's your future IPO pipeline," he said. "You're going to see this cloud index explode."WATCH: Coupa CEO says there is a $50 billion addressable market in cloud expense managementVIDEO6:3906:39Coupa CEO: Cloud expense management has a $50 billion addressable marketMad Money with Jim CramerFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/10/23, VIDEO3:2103:21Microsoft sinks despite earnings, revenue beatClosing BellMicrosoft stock was little changed on Wednesday after the company reported better-than-expected fiscal first quarter results and slightly lower-than-expected quarterly revenue guidance.Here's how the company did:Earnings: $1.38 per share, excluding certain items, vs. $1.25 per share as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.Revenue: $33.06 billion, vs. $32.23 billion as expected by analysts, according to Refinitiv.Revenue increased 14% on an annualized basis in the first quarter of Microsoft's 2020 fiscal year, which ended on September 30, according to a statement.The Azure public cloud business delivered 59% revenue growth, which is down from the 64% growth one quarter earlier. Microsoft doesn't disclose Azure revenue in dollar figures. Analysts at Evercore, which has the equivalent of a buy rating on Microsoft stock, said in a note distributed to clients on October 18 that they had been expecting 64% Azure growth in the fiscal first quarter. Azure's growth rate has generally been on the decline as it keeps growing, like competitor Amazon Web Services, which is larger but growing more slowly."We do continue to expect Azure, especially on the consumption side, gross margins to improve," Amy Hood, Microsoft's chief financial officer, told analysts on a Wednesday conference call.Hood called for fiscal second quarter revenue of $35.15 billion to $35.95 billion. The middle of the range, $35.55 billion, was below the $36.02 billion Refinitiv consensus estimate. Hood predicted $12.45 billion to $12.65 billion in the cost of goods sold in the fiscal second quarter; analysts polled by FactSet had expected an average of $13.37 billion.The top business segment in the fiscal first quarter was More Personal Computing, the traditional core of the company. Analysts had expected that to happen. In the previous quarter Microsoft's Intelligent Cloud business segment, which includes Azure, was larger than any other segment for the first time in more than three years.More Personal Computing, which comprises Windows, Surface, search ads and gaming, came up with $11.13 billion in revenue. Analysts polled by FactSet had been looking for $10.90 billion. Commercial Windows revenue from device makers rose 19% ahead of the end of support for Windows 7, which comes in January 2020. Gartner and IDC earlier this month both pointed to the Windows 10 upgrade cycle when they reported increases in PC shipments in the quarter.Revenue from Windows commercial products and cloud services surged 26%; one year earlier the growth rate was 12%. Microsoft attributed the change to more agreements on Microsoft 365, a bundle that includes Windows 10, Office 365 productivity services and mobility and security tools. Commercial revenue from services and device makers was more than Microsoft had expected, Hood said.Microsoft's Productivity and Business Processes unit, which contains Office, LinkedIn and Dynamics, delivered $11.08 billion in revenue. The FactSet consensus estimate was $10.88 million. Office 365 commercial seat growth slowed to 21% on an annualized basis as Microsoft crossed 200 million Office 365 commercial monthly active users. Microsoft reported a 9.5% increase in the number of Office 365 consumer subscribers, which is now at 35.6 million.The Intelligent Cloud segment, which houses Azure along with Windows Server, SQL Server, System Center, GitHub and consulting, contributed $10.85 billion in revenue. The FactSet estimate was $10.42 billion.In the fiscal first quarter, Microsoft said LinkedIn would move to Azure, and announced the acquisitions of cloud migration company Movere, data security company BlueTalon and retail advertising company PromoteIQ.Earlier this month Jefferies analysts led by Brent Thill upgraded Microsoft stock to buy from the equivalent of a sell rating. "We see a large diversified business with excellent visibility that has a clear line of sight into double-digit rev growth for the foreseeable future," they wrote in a note to clients. The analysts pointed to Azure, the Office business and LinkedIn as growth opportunities.Microsoft said last month that it would stop disclosing gaming revenue in its earnings releases, and would instead start disclosing revenue growth from Xbox content and services, as the company has bolstered its gaming services, with more coming soon. (It still discloses gaming revenue in its quarterly financial filing with the SEC.) In the fiscal first quarter, though, Microsoft said Xbox content and services revenue was basically unchanged; that result has to do with impact from the game Fortnite in the same period one year earlier, when there was 36% growth, making for a difficult comparison.Microsoft shares are up about 35% since the beginning of the year.WATCH: Microsoft beats on top and bottomVIDEO1:1901:19Microsoft beats on top and bottomClosing BellFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/04/28, In this articleORCLZMEric Yuan, founder and chief executive officer of Zoom Video Communications Inc., speaks during the BoxWorks 2019 Conference at the Moscone Center in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Thursday, Oct. 3, 2019.BloombergZoom selected Oracle to expand its cloud on Tuesday, bypassing major cloud leaders Amazon Web Services, Alphabet's Google Cloud Platform and Microsoft's Azure Cloud. The terms of the deal were not disclosed."We recently experienced the most significant growth our business has ever seen, requiring massive increases in our service capacity. We explored multiple platforms, and Oracle Cloud Infrastructure was instrumental in helping us quickly scale our capacity and meet the needs of our new users," Zoom CEO Eric Yuan said in a press release. "We chose Oracle Cloud Infrastructure because of its industry-leading security, outstanding performance and unmatched level of support."Zoom already uses Amazon and Microsoft's cloud services, but went with Oracle for its latest expansion. Oracle founder and chairman Larry Ellison praised Zoom earlier this month, calling it an "essential service" during the coronavirus pandemic.The Covid-19 pandemic has pushed many companies and schools to remote work, which allowed Zoom to emerge as a key player. The videoconferencing software company last week surpassed 300 million daily users, up from 200 million in just weeks. Oracle said in a release that Zoom chose its service for Oracle's "advantages in performance, scalability, reliability and superior cloud security." It's a surprising move from Zoom, as it chose Oracle over its larger competitors. According to research firm Canalys, Amazon had the largest cloud market share at the end of 2019 with 32.4%, followed by Microsoft, with 17.6%, and Google, with 6%.Oracle stock was little changed following the announcement.Zoom's massive growth has also raised security questions around the service. After several security snafus, the company said it would focus on beefing up its security over the next few months instead of rolling out new features it had planned.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO0:5200:52Zoom falls after Facebook announces new group chat featurePower Lunch

2020/01/28, Microsoft's "Be the One" spot with Katie Sowers.Source: YouTubeMicrosoft's Super Bowl commercial will celebrate San Francisco 49ers offensive assistant coach Katie Sowers, who on Sunday will become the first woman to coach in the big game.The ad is titled "Be the One." Near the end of the spot, Sowers tells the camera "All it takes is one, and then it opens the door for so many." After, on-screen text reads, "Thanks Katie for being the one." Sowers is also the first openly gay person to coach in the Super Bowl.It's an extension of an existing relationship with Sowers. Microsoft launched a 30 second ad for Surface in early January showing how Sowers uses her Surface Pro 7 in her coaching. Microsoft Surface is the "official laptop" of the NFL, and players and coaches use them on the sidelines to go over plays.In last year's Super Bowl, Microsoft ran "We All Win," a spot for its Xbox Adaptive Controller that talked about the device helping gamers with limited mobility play with their friends. For this year's spot, Kathleen Hall, the corporate VP of brand, advertising & research at Microsoft, told CNBC the company again wanted to do something contextually relevant to the Super Bowl that wasn't your "typical macho" kind of thing."We like to come at it from a different angle," she said.For it to make sense for such a massive stage at the Super Bowl, Hall said there has to be an absolute product truth. "For us, it isn't about borrowed interest -- there has to be some real tangible product reason why, and that definitely is the Surface," Hall said.There also has to be a brand values story and a reason it makes sense in the context of the Super Bowl, she said."Does this stand for something we stand for as a brand and does it sort of perpetuate our values? And it absolutely does," she said. "And the other thing we look for is, is it contextually relevant, is there a reason it's right in the Super Bowl? For this one, it's pretty obvious."Advertisers have historically had a spotty record in terms of including women in a respectful way in their Super Bowl advertising. In recent years, there has been a conscious effort from some brands to reverse that. Another spot from Olay this year will feature an all-female cast and seek to reach the women in the Super Bowl audience."The bar is not to be just politically correct," Hall said. Instead, she said it's important to be proactively supportive of diversity and inclusion.Microsoft's spot, done with its ad agency Interpublic Group of Cos.' McCann, was directed by Peter Berg, who was an executive producer on the TV adaptation of "Friday Night Lights" and an executive producer and director on HBO shows "The Leftovers" and "Ballers.""He has a super intellectual yet emotional understanding of the game," Hall said of Berg.Watch the other Super Bowl spots that have been released so far here.Follow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech and advertising industry news.VIDEO1:4301:43Planters has explained why it killed off Mr. Peanut—Here's whyNews Videos

2020/01/07, Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, speaks during an interview on the David Rubenstein Show in New York on September 27, 2017.Christopher Goodney | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesA Goldman Sachs survey of technology executives at large companies last month showed that Microsoft remained the most popular supplier of public cloud services, even as Amazon leads the market overall in terms of revenue.The latest results suggest that Microsoft could continue to gain cloud market share. Microsoft stock has outpaced the major indices as CEO Satya Nadella has focused the company more on cloud services, particularly for business use. Further cloud growth could help bring the stock higher, as analysts expect.Goldman Sachs based its latest findings on an information-technology spending survey of 100 IT executives at Global 2000 companies. It performs the survey each June and December.The latest survey showed that 56 executives are using Azure for cloud infrastructure, versus 48 using AWS. Across cloud infrastructure and platform as a service put together, Microsoft's lead which has been increasing since December 2017, according to the analysts.Additionally, more respondents expect their companies to be using Azure than any other cloud in three years, the analysts wrote.They said 66 chief information officers responded that they will use Azure for cloud infrastructure then, while 64 said they would use AWS at that time."Respondents expect today's top vendors to continue to dominate the rankings in three years. Microsoft remains the clear leader, with 22% of the votes today and in three years respectively," the analysts wrote.The results lead the analysts to conclude that about 23% of IT workloads are now on public clouds, up from 19% in June, and they expect the percentage to reach 43% in three years. That leaves plenty of room for growth for other contenders, like Google, for example. It came in third place for cloud infrastructure vendors that respondents expect to be using in three years, with 30.The analysts repeatedly pointed out that workload usage doesn't line up exactly with actual revenue. In the third quarter AWS captured $9 billion in revenue. Microsoft doesn't specify quarterly Azure revenue but analyst Jay Vleeschhouwer of Griffin Securities, who has a buy rating on Microsoft, estimated that Azure revenue in the quarter was about $4.33 billion.About 91% of analysts surveyed by FactSet have the equivalent of buy ratings on Microsoft stock, including Goldman Sachs.WATCH: Nadella has made cloud a 'massive part' of Microsoft: Fund managerVIDEO2:4002:40Nadella has made cloud a 'massive part' of Microsoft: Fund managerStreet Signs EuropeFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/01/23, Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon, pictured on September 13, 2018.Bloomberg | Getty ImagesWASHINGTON — Amazon said Wednesday it filed a motion to pause Microsoft's work on the Pentagon's multibillion-dollar cloud deal until a court rules on the protest of the contract award.The Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, cloud computing contract could be worth up to $10 billion for services rendered over as many as 10 years. The Pentagon selected Microsoft over Amazon for the colossal contract on October 25."It is common practice to stay contract performance while a protest is pending and it's important that the numerous evaluation errors and blatant political interference that impacted the JEDI award decision be reviewed," a spokesperson for AWS wrote in a Wednesday statement."AWS is absolutely committed to supporting the DoD's modernization efforts and to an expeditious legal process that resolves this matter as quickly as possible," the spokesperson added. In November, Amazon filed a notice in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims indicating a plan to protest the Pentagon's decision to award Microsoft the multibillion-dollar cloud contract. Amazon claimed that the JEDI evaluation process contained "clear deficiencies, errors, and unmistakable bias." In December, Amazon's AWS chief Andy Jassy told CNBC that the cloud contracting was not adjudicated fairly."You know, there was significant political interference here," Jassy explained of the JEDI award."When you have a sitting president who's willing to be very vocal that they dislike a company and the CEO of that company, it makes it difficult for government agencies, including the DoD to make objective decisions without fear of reprisal. And I think that's dangerous and risky for our country," he told CNBC's Jon Fortt.VIDEO8:4008:40AWS' Andy Jassy: JEDI cloud contract was not adjudicated correctlySquawk AlleyAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos has been a constant source of frustration for President Donald Trump. The billionaire executive owns The Washington Post, which Trump regularly criticizes for its coverage of his administration. Trump also has gone after Amazon repeatedly for, as he claims, not paying its fair share of taxes and ripping off the U.S. Post Office.The Pentagon announced in August that Secretary of Defense Mark Esper would review the deal after Trump said he had received complaints from companies about the process. Trump said in July that companies conveyed that the specifications of the contract favored Amazon, according to Bloomberg.Read more: Trump says he's looking into a Pentagon cloud contract"I never had something where more people are complaining," Trump said last month at the White House. "Some of the greatest companies in the world are complaining about it," he added, naming Microsoft, Oracle and IBM.Trump often criticizes Amazon and Bezos, who also owns The Washington Post. The president, without citing evidence, has accused the Post of making up stories about him.The lucrative contract, originally scheduled to be awarded in September 2018, was postponed until Defense Secretary Mark Esper completed a series of thorough reviews of the technology."We've got to get this right, so we are not going to rush to a decision. We are going to spend whatever time the evaluation team needs to spend to make sure we are picking the best technical solution at the right price with the right criteria," Dana Deasy, the Pentagon's chief information officer, told reporters in a closed-door media roundtable at the Pentagon."We don't have an enterprise approach," Deasy added. "We have a bunch of siloed solutions we built. We have lots of vendors we're using for cloud solutions, but we've never stepped back and created a holistic solution, and that is causing challenges out in the field."In December, Microsoft President Brad Smith told CNBC's Morgan Brennan that work on JEDI continues despite Amazon's protest."We have if anything been moving even faster since that contract was awarded," Smith said at the time.

2020/03/16, Satya Nadella, CEO of MicrosoftCNBCMicrosoft's GitHub subsidiary on Monday said it has agreed to buy Npm, a company that operates an online service for distributing packages of open-source software written in the popular JavaScript programming language and offers software that companies can use for their proprietary code as well.Terms of the deal weren't disclosed.The new deal shows Microsoft doubling down on the strategy of helping individuals and corporate developers adopt open-source software, despite its heritage of distributing products that cost money, like Windows. Microsoft acquired GitHub, an online repository for many open-source projects, for $7.5 billion in 2018, and this strategy helps the company particularly in JavaScript, the most widely used programming language among developers according to the latest survey from start-up Stack Overflow.In May of last year GitHub introduced a Package Registry service that represented a degree of competition for Npm, as it. allows people to publish new packages from their code."For paying customers who use npm Pro, Teams, and Enterprise to host private registries, we will continue to support you. We are also investing heavily in GitHub Packages as a great multi-language packages registry that's fully integrated with GitHub," GitHub CEO Nat Friedman wrote in a blog post. "Later this year, we will enable npm's paying customers to move their private npm packages to GitHub Packages—allowing npm to exclusively focus on being a great public registry for JavaScript."tweet"When I saw the GitHub Packages beta announcement and demo at GitHub HQ in San Francisco, I remember turning to Shanku Niyogi and clumsily blurting out, 'Why aren't you trying to buy us?'" Isaac Schlueter, inventor of the Npm package manager and founder of Npm, wrote in a blog post on Monday.Npm was founded in 2014 and is based in Oakland, California, with 46 employees, according to LinkedIn. The open-source Npm package manager dates to 2009. The start-up's investors include Bessemer Venture Partners and True Ventures. As of Monday the Npm homepage listed Microsoft as one of the companies that it was "gratefully serving," along with Adobe, Nike and Salesforce.WATCH: Bill Gates steps down from Microsoft boardVIDEO4:0504:05Bill Gates steps down from Microsoft boardFast Money

2020/02/13, Elon MuskMike Blake | ReutersThis is a live blog. Check back for updates.4:01 pm: Dow falls more than 100 points on renewed coronavirus fears Blame the jump in reported coronavirus cases for the sell-off Thursday. The Dow dipped about 120 points, slipping from its all-time high. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq both fell about 0.1%, snapping their three-day winning streaks. Stocks tempted to rally during the day, but couldn't hold onto the green as travel companies exposed to China dropped. Wynn Resorts and Carnival finished down 2%. Still, the major averages are headed for solid gains on the week. Tesla ended the day up 4.7%. —Li 3:22 pm: Wayfair drops 13% as company announces job cutsShares of the online retailer tanked 13% after the company said it was cutting roughly 3% of its workforce, which translates to around 500 jobs. The company said that around 350 of the job cuts would be at its corporate headquarters in Boston. Globally, Wayfair has more than 17,000 employees. The company went public in 2014, and has yet to report a profit. Its next earnings report, which will include sales from the holiday season, will be released on Feb. 28. —Stevens2:56 pm: Final hour of trading: S&P 500 and Nasdaq head for records, Dow off lowsWith roughly one hour left in the trading session, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq were headed for record closing highs while the Dow traded well off its session lows. Stocks managed to recover most of their losses even as the number of reported coronavirus cases in China jumped. To be sure, the increase was partially due to a change in China's counting methodology. —Imbert2:37 pm: Amazon shares up slightly after judge blocks Microsoft's JEDI contractShares of Amazon turned higher, now up 0.3%, after a judge ordered Pentagon to halt the JEDI cloud contract it awarded to Microsoft. In January, Amazon's cloud-computing arm AWS filed a formal motion asking the court to pause Microsoft's work on the contract, claiming the evaluation process included "clear deficiencies, errors and unmistakable bias." The court granted that motion on Thursday. —Li2:31 pm: NYSE advancers and decliners in a dead heatThe S&P 500 hit a record high, but the number of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks that are rising is virtually the same as those that are falling. Advancing NYSE stocks totaled just over 1,400 while the number declining stocks at the exchange hovered around 1,380. —Imbert2:30 pm: Treasury 30-year auction at lowest yield everThe Treasury auctioned $19 billion in 30-year bonds at a yield of 2.061%, the lowest auction interest rate ever. The low closing yield on the 30-year bond was 1.95% from last August, but the previous lowest auction yield was 2.17% in October. Thursday's auction was strong, with non-dealer bidding at 80.9%, compared to an average of 78.2%. The bid to cover was 2.43 times, compared to an average of 2.32.Dealers took 19.1% of the offer, less than the 21.8% average. "The overnight rally in Treasuries was almost fully retraced heading into the long-bond auction as volumes were decelerating, but still above average in the 30-year sector. Since the result, yields have fallen and the curve has flattened," notes Ben Jeffrey of BMO. — Domm2:14 pm: Microsoft turns negative after judge ruling on JEDI defense caseShares of Microsoft turned negative, now down 0.4%, after a judge ordered a temporary halt for the company's Pentagon contract. Microsoft won the lucrative JEDI contract over Amazon. Last month, Amazon filed a motion asking the court to pause Microsoft's work on the $10 billion cloud contract. — Li2:06 pm: S&P 500 and Nasdaq hit records highsBoth the S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite erased their losses and reached fresh all-time highs. The broader S&P 500 traded 0.1% higher while the Nasdaq was up 0.2%. At their lows of the day, the averages were down by 0.6% and 0.8%, respectively. —Imbert1:52 pm: Analyst sees Shelton Fed confirmation 'in doubt'Even though Judy Shelton testified in "a thoughtful and steady manner," her confirmation as a Fed governor is "in doubt" due in part to her potential to be the next central bank chair, according to Ed Mills, Washington policy analyst at Raymond James. Shelton underwent an intensive grilling Thursday before the Senate Banking Committee, with a number of members, including some Republicans, forcefully challenging her positions. Mills noted at least three GOP senators have "substantive concerns" over Shelton, whom President Donald Trump nominated to a vacant governor's position. An idea floated in multiple quarters suggests Shelton could be a successor to current Chairman Jerome Powell, who has been the target of frequent criticism from the president. "It would be difficult for Senators to reverse course on a potential nomination for the Fed chairmanship for a nominee that had previously been confirmed twice by the Senate for her posts," Mills wrote. —Cox1:42 pm: 25 S&P 500 stocks hit all-time highsChipotle, Arconic, Equifax and Duke Energy are among the 25 stocks in the S&P 500 to reach a record high on Thursday. Their move higher comes despite some pressure in the broader market amid renewed coronavirus fears. Here are some other stocks that hit all-time highs on Thursday:CintasHumanaAdobeApplied MaterialsEquinixLindeAir ProductsCrown Castle InternationalJack Henry & AssociatesFidelity National Information Services—Imbert, Hayes1:07 pm: Value investor says he 'loves' Marathon Petroleum at this valuationCerity Partners' Jim Lebenthal made the case for Marathon Petroleum on Thursday's "Halftime Report." "I love this stock at this valuation," he said. "This thing has gotten lost in the shuffle. Oil has obviously tumbled with the coronavirus, but that presents the opportunity … as the economy continues to turn up, and it has from 2019, refinery and refined-product demand will continue to go up, and earnings should go up as well." Shares of the company have gained 9% this month, but have fallen 6% over the last year. —Stevens12:37 pm: Tesla extends gains, up 6%Tesla shares not only erased losses from earlier in the day, but are now trading about 6% higher to add to their extraordinary 2020 run. The stock initially fell after Tesla announced a $2 billion common stock offering. Tesla shares are currently on track for their biggest one-day gain since a 13.7% surge on Feb. 4. —Imbert12:24 pm: Tech sector hits new all-time highShares of the technology sector hit a new all-time intraday high on Thursday. Applied Materials was the sector's top performer, gaining more than 5%, after the company beat top and bottom line estimates for the first quarter. Other top-performers included Fidelity National Information Services, which gained more than 4%, as well as Fiserv, Lam Research and Paycom Software, which were all up more than 2%. – Francolla, Stevens11:52 am: Markets at midday: Nasdaq turns positive, stocks off lowsStocks are off their lows of the day around midday Thursday, and the Nasdaq turned positive as big tech Microsoft and Facebook led the gains. The Dow pared losses to trade about 90 points lower, after dropping 205 points at its session low. The S&P 500 is last down 0.1%. —Li11:22 am: Wall Street goes on the defensiveThe ETFs that track the S&P 500 real estate and utilities sectors hit intraday records on Thursday as traders hedged some of their risk exposure amid renewed coronavirus fears. The Real Estate Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLRE) rose 0.6% while the Utilities Select Sector fund (XLU) gained 0.8%. Real estate and utilities are considered to be defensive sectors because they are typically less tied to economic turbulence. —Imbert, Francolla11 am: SunPower plummets 18%Shares of solar company SunPower dropped 18% after the company reported fourth quarter earnings that fell short of analyst expectations. On an adjusted basis, the company said it earned 23 cents per share for the quarter on $607 million in revenue. According to estimates from FactSet, analysts had been calling for EPS of 24 cents, and $627.7 million in revenue. For the full-year, the company reported an adjusted loss of 29 cents per share. Following earnings, Cowen downgraded the stock to a market perform rating. The firm said it's optimistic about a number of the company's initiatives, including its solar plus storage offering, but that "the near and mid-term catalysts are largely baked in." Thursday's drop is in sharp contrast to Wednesday's trading session when the stock gained 10.6%. —Stevens10:26 am: Senators grill Shelton on multiple frontsShelton has been peppered with questions on both sides regarding her views on the gold standard, Fed independence and deposit insurance, among other issues. Both Democrats and Republicans have challenged her, though the stronger criticism has come from the former side. "The bottom line is, Ms. Shelton has too many alarming ideas and has flipped-flopped on too many important issues to be confirmed for this job," said Sen. Sherrod Brown, the Ohio Democrat. By contrast, her fellow nominee, Christopher Waller, has faced comparatively few questions and appears on the way to easy confirmation. – Cox10:21 am: Shelton says Trump's open Fed criticism is 'refreshing'During her confirmation hearing, Federal Reserve nominee Judy Shelton said anyone is welcome to criticize the central bank – even the president. "I think what we've seen historically is some Fed chairman have felt they were being pressured behind the scenes. In some ways, it's refreshing that that's out in the open." —Cox10:08 am: Stocks hit session lows as CDC confirms 15th US case of coronavirusThe Dow dropped about 200 points, hitting its low of the day, after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed the 15th case of coronavirus infection in the United States. The S&P 500 is last down 0.4%. — Li10 am: Streak of positive Thursdays at riskWith the S&P 500 trading in the red this morning, the index could be headed for its worst Thursday in several months. Bespoke Investment Group pointed out on Twitter that the index has not had a negative Thursday since before Thanksgiving. The S&P 500 slipped 0.16% on Nov. 21.The index is down roughly 0.22% in earning trading. That would mark the worst Thursday since Oct. 31, when the S&P 500 fell 0.3%. — PoundTweet9:55 am: Tesla turns positiveShares of Tesla erased early losses and are now trading in the positive territory after the electric auto maker said it plans a $2 billion common stock offering. The stock recovered as analysts and investors cheered the move as a way to shore up its balance sheet and possibly further expansion plans. Shares of Tesla fell as much as 6% in premarket trading following the announcement. —Li9:31 am: Dow slips more than 100 points from record highThe Dow fell about 123 points at the open, slipping from a record high reached in the previous session. The S&P 500 is down 0.3%, while the Nasdaq dipped 0.5%. The losses came as a sharp rise in reported coronavirus cases fueled concerns that the epidemic would disrupt the global economy. Travel companies with high China exposure led the decline, with Wynn Resorts and Las Vegas Sands down 2% each. Tesla is down 2.3% at the open.— Li9:21 am: Why Tesla isn't down moreTwo analysts heralded news of Tesla's new $2 billion stock offering as a smart move for CEO Elon Musk and the rest of the carmaker's board. Dan Ives of Wedbush Securities told CNBC that he thinks the sale is "a smart strategic move. It takes any doomsday scenario around cash crunch, or limiting some of their strategic initiatives, off the table." Meanwhile, Pierre Ferragu of New Street Research said that while he wasn't expecting the cash grab, it makes sense that Tesla would want to bolster its balance sheet given its recent valuation surge. "Although we don't see any reason for the company to consume material cash in coming quarters and years, the company remains exposed to macro fluctuations and would weather an economic downturn better (i.e. without slowing expansion plans) with a stronger balance sheet," Ferragu wrote. — Franck9 am: Here are Thursday's biggest analyst callsMKM initiated Starbucks as buyCowen upgraded Philip Morris to outperform from market performEvercore ISI raised its price target on Microsoft to $212 from $190Goldman Sachs upgraded Caterpillar to buy from neutralRaymond James upgraded Altice USA to strong buy from outperformCNBC Pro readers can read more here. —Bloom8:45 am: Inflation, claims data fails to move marketMarkets reacted little to Thursday morning data that was close to expectations. The headline Consumer Price Index rose 0.2% in January, meeting expectations. On a year-over-year basis, CPI was up 2.5%, also in line. The core gain, excluding food and energy, increased 2.3% for the year, a notch above the 2.2% forecast by economist surveyed by Dow Jones. At the same time, weekly jobless claims rose 2,000 to 205,000, beneath the 210,000 estimate. Stock market futures continued to point to a 150-point drop for the Dow, while government bond yields held in negative territory. —Cox8:32 am: Alibaba slides 2% despite strong resultsShares of e-commerce giant Alibaba slid 2.4% in Thursday's premarket trading despite better-than-expected results. For the third quarter the company reported adjusted earnings of 18.19 yuan per share, which was ahead of the 15.75 yuan per share analysts had been calling for, according to estimates from FactSet. Revenue also topped expectations, coming in at 161.45 billion yuan versus the consensus estimate of 159.28 billion yuan. The China-based company said that results were boosted by strength in e-commerce and cloud computing. —Stevens(Corrects EPS and revenue figures are in Chinese yuan.)8:29 am: NetApp tanks 13% after disappointing earningsShares of data management company NetApp dropped 13.5% during Thursday's premarket trading after the company's third quarter earnings results fell short of Street expectations. The company earned $1.16 per share for the quarter on revenue of $1.40 billion. Analysts expected earnings of $1.18 per share and $1.46 billion in revenue, respectively, according to estimates from FactSet. Guidance was also light, and the CFO said he would be retiring by the end of the fiscal year. —Stevens8:27 am: Coronavirus-related names take a beating againShares of travel companies were under pressure again in premarket trading following a sharp rise in reported coronavirus cases. Casino stocks with big revenue exposure to China are down big with Wynn Resorts and Las Vegas Sands sliding 2.7% and 2.3%, respectively. Airlines, which took a big hit after halting their services in China, fell again after rebounding this month. Shares of United Airlines dipped 1.7%, and American Airlines dropped 1.4% in premarket.— Li8:18 am: Tesla shares slide on $2 billion stock offeringThe electric car marker's stock dropped more than 4% in the premarket on news Tesla will offer $2 billion in common stock. Elon Musk, Tesla's CEO, will buy up to $10 million from that offering while board member Larry Ellison will also buy up to $1 million in common stock. The proceeds from this offering, Tesla says, will be used to "to further strengthen its balance sheet, as well as for general corporate purposes." — Imbert8:04 am: Dow futures drop 200 points as reported coronavirus cases jumpStock futures are under pressure after the number of reported coronavirus cases increased, stoking once again fears of an economic slowdown stemming from the virus. Dow Jones Industrial Average futures were down about 200 points, indicating a loss of around 180 points. S&P 500 and Nasdaq 100 losses also pointed to sharp losses. China said it confirmed 15,152 new cases and 254 additional deaths. That brings the country's total death toll to 1,367 as the number of people infected jumped to nearly 60,000. To be sure, the jump in cases may be due to the way Chinese authorities are counting them. Health authorities in Hubei province said Thursday that they changed the way they tabulate case totals — "clinically diagnosed" cases now count toward the "confirmed case" count, resulting in the sudden surge among the latter. Tesla shares dropped 5% on —Imbert—With reporting by Jeff Cox, Jesse Pound, Gina Francolla, Christopher Hayes and Michael Bloom.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2019/10/28, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft, speaks during a Microsoft launch event to introduce the new Microsoft Surface laptop and Windows 10 S operating system, May 2, 2017 in New York City.Getty ImagesMicrosoft has invested in a startup that uses facial recognition to surveil Palestinians throughout the West Bank, in spite of the tech giant's public pledge to avoid using the technology if it encroaches on democratic freedoms.AnyVision, which is headquartered in Israel but has offices in the U.S., the U.K., and Singapore, sells an "advanced tactical surveillance" software system, Better Tomorrow. It lets customers identify individuals and objects in any live camera feed, such as a security camera or smartphone, and then track targets as they move between different feeds.According to five sources familiar with the matter, AnyVision's technology powers a secret military surveillance project throughout the West Bank. One source said the project is nicknamed "Google Ayosh," where "Ayosh" means occupied Palestinian territories and "Google" denotes the technology's ability to search for people.The American technology company Google is not involved in the project, a spokesman said.The surveillance project was so successful that AnyVision won the country's top defense prize in 2018. During the presentation, Israel's defense minister lauded the company — without using its name — for preventing "hundreds of terror attacks" using "large amounts of data."Palestinians living in the West Bank do not have Israeli citizenship or voting rights but are subject to movement restrictions and surveillance by the Israeli government.Face recognition is possibly the most perfect tool for complete government control in public spaces, so we need to treat it with extreme caution – ACLU's Shankar NarayanThe Israeli army has installed thousands of cameras and other monitoring devices across the West Bank to monitor the movements of Palestinians and deter terror attacks. Security forces and intelligence agencies also scan social media posts and use algorithms in an effort to predict the likelihood that someone will carry out a lone-wolf attack and arrest them before they do.The addition of facial recognition technology transforms passive camera surveillance combined with the list of suspects into a much more powerful tool."The basic premise of a free society is that you shouldn't be subject to tracking by the government without suspicion of wrongdoing. You are presumed innocent until proven guilty," said Shankar Narayan, technology and liberty project director at the American Civil Liberties Union. "The widespread use of face surveillance flips the premise of freedom on its head and you start becoming a society where everyone is tracked no matter what they do all the time.""Face recognition is possibly the most perfect tool for complete government control in public spaces, so we need to treat it with extreme caution. It's hard to see how using it on a captive population [like Palestinians in the West Bank] could comply with Microsoft's ethical principles," he added.When NBC News first approached AnyVision for an interview, the company's CEO Eylon Etshtein denied any knowledge of "Google Ayosh," threatened to sue NBC News and said that AnyVision was the "most ethical company known to man." He disputed that the West Bank was "occupied" and questioned the motivation of the NBC News inquiry, suggesting the reporter must have been funded by a Palestinian activist group.In subsequent written responses to NBC News's questions and allegations, AnyVision apologized for the outburst and revised its position."As a private company we are not in a position to speak on behalf of any country, company or institution," Etshtein said.Days later, AnyVision gave a different response: "We are affirmatively denying that AnyVision is involved in any other project beyond what we have already stated [referring to the use of AnyVision's software at West Bank border checkpoints]."AnyVision's technology has also been used by Israeli police to track suspects through the Israel-controlled streets of East Jerusalem, where three of five residents are Palestinian.One of the company's technology demonstrations, a video obtained by NBC News, shows what purports to be live camera feeds monitoring people, including children and women wearing hijabs and abayas, as they walk through Jerusalem.AnyVision said this did not reflect an "ongoing customer relationship," referring to the Israeli police.When AnyVision won the prestigious Israel Defense Prize, awarded to entities found to have "significantly improved the security of the state," the company wasn't named in the media announcement because the surveillance project was classified. Employees were instructed not to talk about the award publicly.However, NBC News has seen a photo of the team accepting the prize, a framed certificate that commends AnyVision for its "technological superiority and direct contribution to the prevention of terror attacks."AnyVision said it does not comment on behalf of "other companies, countries or institutions.""Many countries and organizations face a diverse set of threats, whether it is keeping students and teachers safe in schools, facilitating the movement of individuals in and out of everyday buildings, and other situations where innocents could face risk," said the company in a statement. "Our fundamental mission is to help keep all people safe with a best-in-class technology offering, wherever that threat may originate."The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) declined to comment on "Google Ayosh" or AnyVision's receipt of the Israel Defense Prize.Microsoft's investmentNBC's investigation, which builds on reporting from Israeli business publication TheMarker, comes at a time when Microsoft is positioning itself as a moral leader among technology companies, a move that has shielded the company from sustained public criticism faced by others like Facebook and Google. The company's investment in AnyVision raises questions about how it applies its ethical principles in practice."Microsoft takes these mass surveillance allegations seriously because they would violate our facial recognition principles," said a Microsoft spokesman."If we discover any violation of our principles, we will end our relationship.""All of our installations have been examined and confirmed against not only Microsoft's ethical principles, but also our own internal rigorous approval process," said AnyVision.In June, Microsoft's venture capital arm M12 announced it would invest in AnyVision as part of a $74 million Series A funding round, along with Silicon Valley venture capital firm DFJ. The deal sparked criticism from human rights activists who argued — as Forbes reported — that the investment was incompatible with Microsoft's public statements about ethical standards for facial recognition technology.While there are benign applications for facial recognition, such as unlocking your smartphone, the technology is controversial because it can be used to facilitate mass surveillance, exacerbate human bias in policing and infringe on people's civil liberties. Because of this, several U.S. cities, including San Francisco, Oakland and Berkeley in California and Somerville, Massachusetts, have banned the use of the software by the police and other agencies.In a December 2018 blog post, Microsoft President Brad Smith said, "We need to be clear-eyed about the risks and potential for abuse" and called for government regulation of facial-recognition technology. He noted that it can "lead to new intrusions into people's privacy" and that when used by a government for mass surveillance can "encroach on democratic freedoms."Microsoft also unveiled six ethical principles to guide its facial recognition work: fairness, transparency, accountability, non-discrimination, notice and consent and lawful surveillance. The last principle states: "We will advocate for safeguards for people's democratic freedoms in law enforcement surveillance scenarios and will not deploy facial recognition technology in scenarios that we believe will put these freedoms at risk."Microsoft said that AnyVision agreed to comply with these principles as part of M12's investment and secured audit rights to ensure compliance."We are proceeding with a third party audit and asked for a robust board level review and compliance process. AnyVision has agreed to both," said a Microsoft spokesman.Microsoft declined to explain how, exactly, it defined these principles or how it verified AnyVision's compliance prior to investing."They seem to believe they can have their cake and eat it, that ethical principles just exist in the abstract and don't have to engage with real-world politics. But their technologies do, which means that they do," said Os Keyes, from the University of Washington, who researches the ethics of facial recognition.'Our mission is to help keep people safe'Several former AnyVision employees, who did not want to be named because they had signed non-disclosure agreements and feared retaliation, told NBC News that the company did not adhere to Microsoft's ethical standards."Ultimately I saw no evidence that ethical considerations drove any business decisions," said one former employee.They also described a cut-throat culture, where the pressure to sell technology to corporate, government and military clients overrode moral questions around the application of the technology.All of the former employees NBC News spoke to said they left because of broken promises over bonuses and other compensation and ethical questions over how the technology was being marketed and used in practice."There's a certain amount of 'fake it until you make it' with startups but let's just say their definition of the truth is quite a bit more flexible than mine," said one.Another suggested that AnyVision may have made similar misrepresentations to investors like Microsoft.AnyVision told NBC News that it reviewed all of its customers and use cases for compliance with Microsoft's ethical standards and found nothing in violation. It did not provide any specific details about the compliance process."While we are working very hard to meet and beat our commercial KPIs (key performance indicators), it is never at the expense of ethical considerations," said AnyVision.AnyVision said that staffing changes were a difficult but expected part of being a "rapidly growing startup.""Fundamentally our mission is to help keep people safe, improve daily life and do so in an ethical manner," said Etshtein.AnyVision's military tiesAnyVision, which launched in 2015 with what it claimed to be a "world-leading face recognition algorithm," has close ties to Israel's military and intelligence services. It counts former head of Mossad Tamir Pardo among its board of advisers. Amir Kain, who was director of the Defense Ministry's security department from 2007 to 2015, is AnyVision's president. Several current employees did their national military service at elite cyberspy agency Unit 8200, equivalent to the NSA or GCHQ.The company's core product is designed to pick out the faces of multiple suspects in a large crowd, monitor crowd density and track and categorize different types of vehicles, according to promotional materials. AnyVision has described this system as "non-voluntary"because individuals do not need to enroll to be detected automatically. The company claims to have deployed its technology across more than 115,000 cameras.AnyVision has publicly acknowledged one of its projects in the West Bank — the provision of facial recognition technology at 27 of the checkpoints Palestinians must use to cross into Israel. Migrant workers place their ID cards on a sensor and stare into a camera that uses face recognition to verify their identity. AnyVision said in an August blog post that the technology "drastically decreases wait times at border crossings" and provides an "unbiased safeguard at the border to detect and deter persons who have committed unlawful activities." This screening is not used at the separate West Bank checkpoints Israelis drive through.In 2007, based on conversations with former Israeli officials, Harvard researcher Yael Berda estimated that the Israeli government had a list of about 200,000 potential terrorists in the West Bank that it wanted to monitor — about a fifth of the West Bank's male population at the time — as well as a list of 65,000 individuals deemed to pose a criminal risk. Both lists included people suspected of specific offenses as well as people considered worthy of scrutiny for other reasons — for example, criticizing Israel on Facebook or living in a village where Hamas is popular."It's not limited to people suspected of actual militancy or training or anything," said Berda, who has written a book about the bureaucracy of Israel's occupation.The IDF declined to comment on how many people it has under surveillance in the West Bank currently."There has never been a surveillance technology that hasn't disproportionately impacted already marginalized communities," said Narayan. "And it's still unclear whether a perfectly unbiased face surveillance system can coexist with democracy."AnyVision has a second product, called SesaMe, that offers identify verification for banking and smartphone applications.Beyond its work with the Israeli government, the company has sold its facial recognition software to casinos, sports stadiums, retailers and theme parks across the U.S. AnyVision demonstrated, but said it didn't sell, the technology to Customs and Border Patrol in Arizona as a modular component for a surveillance truck. It also approached high schools after mass shootings, including one in Santa Fe, Texas, to offer facial recognition technology as a means to keep children safer.The company's technology was tested in Russia at Moscow's Domodedovo Airport in 2018, but AnyVision said it had terminated all activity there. Nigerian security company Cyber Dome told NBC News that it sold AnyVision's technology to local corporate customers. AnyVision denied this.AnyVision's executives considered the West Bank to be a testing ground for its surveillance technology, said one former employee."It was heavily communicated to us [by AnyVision's leadership] that the Israeli government was the proof of concept for everything we were doing globally. The technology was field-tested in one of the world's most demanding security environments and we were now rolling it out to the rest of the market," he said."Israel was the first territory where we validated our technology," said Etshtein. "However today more than 95 percent of our revenue is generated from end customers outside of Israel."Human rights and civil liberties groups were concerned about what they saw as the use of Palestinians as guinea pigs for surveillance technology exports.The ACLU's Shankar Narayan described the practice as "very troubling but far from new.""One of the dirty little secrets of AI and face recognition is that in order to make it more accurate there is this hunger for datasets. So many entities have engaged in what I would say were unethical practices with regards to getting more datasets," he said.Palestinian activists questioned the use of face recognition at the border checkpoints"Strengthening the checkpoints with face recognition means more sustainability for the occupation," said Nadim Nashif, executive director and co-founder of 7amleh, a non-profit that advocates for Palestinian human rights. "Palestinians want full rights like any other human being without being restricted in their freedom of movement."He added that it was sad that big American companies like Microsoft publicly talk about human rights compliance at a "declarative level" but then invest in companies like AnyVision "without thoroughly checking or restricting their operations."VIDEO1:1301:13Microsoft president calls on Congress to monitor facial recognition softwareClosing Bell

2020/01/16, VIDEO1:0501:05Cramer Remix: The only REIT stocks working in this marketMad Money with Jim CramerCNBC's Jim Cramer stressed why it's important for American business to become more environmentally conscious. The "Mad Money" host sat down with the CEO and CFO of Microsoft to get a deeper look in to the software giant's ambitious sustainability plan. Later in the show he got insight into CBD medicine sales with the head of British pharmaceutical company GW Pharmaceuticals.Cramer is bullish on Microsoft's ambitious sustainability plansMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks during a climate initiative event at the tech giant's campus in Redmond, Washington, on Jan. 16, 2020.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is on a mission to become carbon negative in the next decade, and CNBC's Jim Cramer thinks the ambitious plan has some teeth to it."I think they can do it because, remember, they are a powerful force — maybe the most powerful, especially when it comes to data centers, of almost any company on Earth," the "Mad Money" host said about the new imitative. "So I think they can make an impact. I think this is real. This is not greenwash."Microsoft gets friendlier with the earthSatya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during a climate initiative event at the Microsoft Corp. campus in Redmond, Washington, U.S., on Thursday, Jan. 16, 2020.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe science is clear that environmental sustainability must factor in a corporation's growth plans, or the capitalist and economic system the U.S. enjoys "will fundamentally be in jeopardy," Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella told CNBC."The corporation's purpose is to find profitable solutions to the problems of people and planet," he said in a sit down with Cramer, citing author and University of Oxford business professor Colin Mayer. "'Profitable' is the key word, but 'problems' is the other key word for people and planet."The comments came after Microsoft, the world's largest software company, announced an ambitious green plan intended to eliminate its carbon footprint and remove the amount of carbon it has emitted over the decades.GW Pharma sells $296 million worth of CBD medicine in 2019Cannabis leaves sit on plants growing in a greenhouse in the GW Pharmaceuticals Plc facility in Sittingboune, U.K. on Monday, Oct. 29, 2018.Jason Alden | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesPreliminary sales figures for the first cannabis-based medicine in the United States are in and they're telling a bullish story, according to GW Pharmaceuticals CEO Justin Gover.Epidiolex, which contains cannabidiol to treat severe forms of epilepsy, brought in $104 million in net sales in the fourth quarter and a total of $296 million in 2019 across the globe, the British pharmaceutical company preannounced for its quarterly and full-year performances."It's an incredible launch year for any medication [that] I think proves that this kind of medicine is really making a difference to patients," Gover told Cramer in an interview. "It shows real value to the health-care system, and it sets us up, I think, in a very nice way for what should be another great year for us in 2020."Cramer's lightning roundIn Cramer's lightning round, the "Mad Money" host gave callers his thoughts about their favorite stock picks of the day in rapid speed.JD.com: "We don't need JD ... because we've got Alibaba. Now they're both up a lot, but I like Alibaba very much."Adverum Biotechnologies: "Well look, this is the kind of speculative I like and I encourage. I encourage this kind of speculation on Mad Money because as long as you don't put too much money in it, maybe this is the home run. Don't put too much money in it and it can work."DisclaimerDisclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Microsoft.Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2020/06/09, In this articleAMZNFBAAPLJeff Bezos, founder of AmazonKatherine Taylor | ReutersAmazon, Apple, Facebook and Microsoft closed at new all-time highs Tuesday, a day when the Nasdaq Composite Index hit a new record.Big Tech stocks have fared better than most during the coronavirus pandemic as newly remote workers have had come to rely more than ever on online services. Thanks to their large market caps, they've also helped buoy the stock market, which has staged a comeback despite huge unemployment numbers sparked by widespread stay-at-home orders.Facebook, Apple and Amazon all rose more than 3% Tuesday while Microsoft popped about 0.8%. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite rose 0.3%, briefly rising above 10,000 for the first time. The S&P 500 was down about 0.8%.The combined market value of the four companies is now close to $5 trillion, with Apple claiming the top spot at nearly $1.5 trillion. Facebook is the only one of the group with a market cap below $1 trillion.Google parent-company is Alphabet the only one of the five largest tech stocks not to close at an all-time high. It's still about 5% behind its all-time high of $1,524.87, where it closed on Feb. 19.The S&P 500 erased its losses for the year on Monday following a Friday jobs report that quelled economists' worst fears but still delivered a bleak glimpse into the state of unemployment in the U.S. Still, data showed that the slight job gains were distributed inequitably. The unemployment rate for black workers grew slightly in May despite a decline of nearly two percentage points for white workers.While the likelihood of continued restrictions on city life and possibility of a second wave of the virus could weigh on some businesses, the tech companies are well-positioned to continue serving customers from home. New modes of working and socializing have made tech platforms central to many people's communication. Amazon recently announced an estimated $4 billion investment into efforts to respond to the virus, which could create new business opportunities later on.WATCH: Coronavirus may forever change how Big Tech worksVIDEO15:0115:01Coronavirus may forever change how Big Tech worksAt WorkSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2019/11/14, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff in 2014.Source: MicrosoftSalesforce said Thursday it will move its Marketing Cloud service to Microsoft's Azure public cloud, putting aside the rivalry between the two companies.Microsoft's share of the public cloud market remains smaller than market leader Amazon Web Services but has gained wider adoption from customers under CEO Satya Nadella. Last month, Microsoft won a contract to provide the Pentagon with cloud-computing services in a deal that could be worth as much as $10 billion, and in July, Microsoft announced a cloud agreement with AT&T.Salesforce and Microsoft have had a complicated relationship over the years, with executives taking occasional public potshots at each other. They compete in multiple areas, including Salesforce's core business of customer relationship management: Salesforce has the Sales Cloud and Microsoft fields the less popular Dynamics 365 cloud service.In a 2014 detente, the companies signed a product partnership. Salesforce founder and CEO Marc Benioff credited Nadella's collaborative approach as driving the turnaround and even invited him to a prime speaking position at the company's Dreamforce conference. In 2015, Microsoft considered buying Salesforce, but talks broke down over price.Then in 2016, the companies got into a fierce bidding war over LinkedIn, which Microsoft ended up winning, and Benioff's rhetoric soured. "You know, maybe the new Microsoft is actually the old Microsoft," he told CNBC's Jim Cramer.Now, Salesforce has chosen Microsoft's cloud infrastructure to run one of its products around the world. Under Nadella, Microsoft has also previously allied with competitors like Red Hat and VMware.In addition to adopting Azure, Salesforce will also develop technology to integrate its Sales Cloud and Service cloud products with Microsoft's Teams communication app. Teams competes with Slack, and Salesforce has its own social network for internal business discussion called Chatter. The idea is to enhance interoperability between Chatter and Teams, according to a person familiar with the matter.Salesforce currently depends on Amazon's cloud to help run its online services, and in 2017 it said it would also use Alphabet's Google Cloud Platform to deliver services. Salesforce to date has run Marketing Cloud on its own internal infrastructure, a spokesperson told CNBC.Representatives of the two companies declined to talk about how much Salesforce will spend on Azure.WATCH: Microsoft announces $1 billion investment in Elon Musk-backed AI companyVIDEO1:0301:03Microsoft announces $1 billion investment in Elon Musk-backed AI companyNews VideosFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/11/26, Microsoft's holiday spot, "Holiday Magic: Lucy & The Reindeer"McCannMicrosoft's new holiday ad will promote the company's voice language translation technology, highlighting an area where the software giant is going head to head with Amazon and Google.The ad, which premieres Thursday during the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, touts Microsoft Translator, a cloud service that can translate dozens of languages. In the commercial, a six-year-old girl watches as her mother takes part in a conference call from home as her colleagues speak in Japanese and uses her Surface tablet to translate for her. The ad was made with Microsoft's ad agency, Interpublic Group's McCann.The girl later takes the tablet outside into the snow to try to talk to two reindeer. Once she realizes she's able to translate their snorts into English using the Surface device, she fires off a number of questions like, "What does Santa do in the summer?" and "Is Mrs. Claus a good cook?"Real-time language translation has been an area of research at Microsoft, Amazon and Google, the three leading U.S. providers of cloud infrastructure. All three companies operate speech assistants that can translate spoken words and sentences and offer text translation technologies for other businesses to weave into applications.Kathleen Hall, Microsoft's corporate vice president of brand, advertising and research, told CNBC that this year's holiday ad follows a theme from recent years focusing on how technology can bring people together instead of creating barriers. In a previous spot, musician Common showed how Microsoft uses artificial intelligence to analyze camera-trap images for snow leopard sightings to help conservation efforts.In Microsoft's Super Bowl ad this year, called "We All Win," the company focused on a child, Owen Sirmons, with a rare genetic disorder called Escobar syndrome, which limits physical movement. Owen is shown using an Xbox Adaptive Controller to play with his friends. The boy also starred in the company's holiday ad from last year, which shows his friends running through the neighborhood to watch him win a game using the controller."I think the theme was really building off last year: What does technology do to make the world better for people, or bring them together?" Hall said.Microsoft's market cap topped $1 trillion this year, and the stock is up 49% in 2019 as of Monday's close. While language translation is a potentially lucrative business for Microsoft, Hall said regardless of how the company is performing it thinks about campaigns like this the same way."If you're making a lot of money or you're not, you should have the same basic values," she said. "The DNA of the company doesn't change."The commercial, which will run across TV, cinema, digital and social channels through December, finishes by saying, "Happy Holidays in 60+ Languages. Reindeer isn't one of them. Yet."WATCH: Why Amazon's protesting the military cloud contract that went to MicrosoftVIDEO5:4505:45Amazon is protesting the military cloud contract that went to MicrosoftSquawk Box

2019/11/13, Harry Shum, executive vice president of artificial intelligence and research at Microsoft Corp., speaks during the Microsoft Developers Build Conference in Seattle, Washington, U.S., on Wednesday, May 10, 2017.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said on Wednesday that Harry Shum, the executive vice president in charge of its artificial intelligence and research group, is leaving the company in early 2020. Kevin Scott, the company's chief technology officer and formerly a LinkedIn executive, is taking on Shum's responsibilities in addition to his own. It's not clear what Shum will do next.Shum has been a figurehead in the more integrated approach to research that has taken hold at Microsoft during the tenure of CEO Satya Nadella, who replaced Steve Ballmer in 2014. His group has been one of the most prominent technology research institutions outside academia, alongside the likes of Google parent-company Alphabet and Facebook."Harry has had a profound impact on Microsoft. His contributions in the fields of computer science and AI leave a legacy and a strong foundation for future innovation. I want to thank him for his leadership and partnership, and for all he has done for Microsoft," Nadella said in a statement provided by a Microsoft spokesperson.Microsoft traditionally kept its brightest minds cordoned off in research facilities, away from people working on products that ship to customers. Over time the company began doing more to involve researchers in product development. In 2016 Microsoft took the next step in an effort to speed up the process of converting research into products. It formed the AI and Research Group, bringing together researchers with people working on products, and put Shum at the helm.Microsoft's Cortana virtual assistant came under his purview, among other things. The group swelled in size; by 2017 it had 8,000 people, GeekWire reported.ZDNet reported the news about Shum's departure earlier on Wednesday.Shum himself joined Microsoft in 1996 as a researcher working at the company's headquarters in Redmond, Washington. He later worked on Microsoft's Bing search engine. He will continue to advise Nadella and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates until he leaves, a spokesperson said.WATCH: Bill Gates: If antitrust case hadn't happened, Microsoft would have built a phone operating systemVIDEO3:3503:35Bill Gates: If not for antitrust case, Microsoft would have built a phone OSTechFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/04/16, In this articleMSFTVIDEO6:1406:14'Shark Tank's Robert Herjavec on cybersecurity risks as coronavirus forces employees to work from homeSquawk AlleyCybersecurity entrepreneur Robert Herjavec said Thursday that Microsoft's stock has been lifted by businesses who want secure video conferencing during the coronavirus pandemic.  "The use of Teams at the corporate enterprise level is really taking off," the "Shark Tank" investor said on CNBC's "Squawk Alley." "I think that's one of the reasons Microsoft's stock is doing so well."Shares of Microsoft rose 3% to $177 each on Thursday. While the stock sits about 7% below its February high, it is up 12.2% year to date.  The S&P 500, by contrast, is down about 13% in 2020. Teams, which lets people exchange chat messages and hold video calls, is part of the Office 365 subscriptions that also includes access to Word and Excel. Herjavec, founder and CEO of cybersecurity firm Herjavec Group, said his company has recently turned to Teams as work-from-home policies in response to the coronavirus pandemic changed how business is conducted. Robert Herjavec, CEO, Herjavec GroupScott Mlyn | CNBC"When all of this first happened we wanted to use Zoom because all our customers use Zoom but I've got to tell you, some of the security issues are really pretty bad within Zoom," he said. Zoom has seen dramatic usage increases as the Covid-19 outbreak forced millions of people to stay at home.While initially targeted toward enterprise use, the company's service has been adopted by schools and people who want to host virtual happy hours with friends, for example. But its newfound popularity has brought about privacy concerns, for which the company has apologized and vowed to fix. Herjavec told CNBC earlier this month that in general his company, which provides cybersecurity products and services to business, has seen a spike in security breaches. He said the pandemic has created "the golden age for hackers." In addition to companies like his own now turning to Teams, Herjavec said his firm also sees an increased reliance on Webex, the video conferencing service by Cisco.  Herjavec's comments Thursday came shortly after Verizon announced its acquisition of BlueJeans, another video conferencing platform.  The increased use of these services will likely outlast the coronavirus crisis, Herjavec argued. "Customer meetings will change forever. In the past, I never thought that I could do a Zoom call or a Teams call with the CEO of a company I'm trying to sell to," he said. "In the future, I don't think my customers will want me to come and see them." Also on Thursday, Microsoft announced a deal with the National Basketball Association to use its Azure cloud and Surface tablets.VIDEO2:1502:15Coronavirus chaos 'golden age' for hackers – Robert Herjavec on how to protect yourselfSquawk AlleyDisclosure: CNBC owns the exclusive off-network cable rights to "Shark Tank," on which Robert Herjavec is a co-host.

2020/04/17, In this articleMSFTVIDEO9:4709:47Microsoft president on handling increased demand during coronavirusSquawk BoxMicrosoft President Brad Smith said Friday that the company's relationship with Bill Gates still is strong. Gates stepped down from the board last month."The relationship will Bill is very deep," Smith told CNBC's "Squawk Box." "He doesn't come to our board meetings four times a year, doesn't participate in the board calls, but he's very much connected to the company." Gates said in late March that he's leaving the company's board to focus on philanthropic efforts, such as global health, education and climate change. At the time, Gates said on LinkedIn he would continue to be engaged with the company's leadership. The billionaire has been focusing on the Covid-19 pandemic, which has sickened more than 2 million people worldwide. Smith said he heard from Gates this week, who wanted to discuss remote interactivity and the pandemic. Smith said he and Gates talked about "tech issues, remote interactivity, Covid-19, what he's seeing around the world, what we're seeing around the world, what businesses should be doing, what governments need to do.""I think, you know, what we've really always benefited from in terms of Bill is his engagement, his intellect, breadth of understanding of issues and we're looking forward very much to continuing to do that," Smith added. Microsoft is one of the most highly-valued public companies and has a market value of $1.35 trillion. Shares of the company closed up 3% Thursday at $177.04. Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO6:5406:54Loup Venture's Munster: Goldman Sachs' downgrade of Apple is 'tone-deaf'Squawk Box

2020/03/06, Chief Executive Officer of Microsoft, Satya Narayana Nadella speaks during a presentation at the Mobile World Congress (MWC), on the eve of the world's biggest mobile fair, on February 24, 2019, in Barcelona.GABRIEL BOUYS | AFP | Getty ImagesTwo Microsoft employees in Washington state have contracted the coronavirus.They are among the more than 95,000 COVID-19 cases around the globe, according to the World Health Organization.Both employees are located in Puget Sound, the area that includes Microsoft's Redmond headquarters, a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Thursday evening. One is an employee of Microsoft subsidiary LinkedIn who works remotely, a LinkedIn spokesperson told CNBC in an email. "Local health experts have determined that this individual had no known contact with other employees while infected and, based on that fact, there is no risk to those who work at LinkedIn from this case," the LinkedIn spokesperson wrote. "We are doing everything we can to support our colleague and will continue to keep the health and safety of our employees, customers and partners as our top priority, working closely with public health officials globally."On Wednesday, Microsoft instructed employees in the Puget Sound and California's Bay Area to work from home if they can over the next few weeks. The company also limited employee travel.On the same day, Facebook said a contractor based at one of the company's offices in Seattle tested positive for the virus.WATCH: Apple and Microsoft are still attractive despite coronavirus fears, says portfolio managerVIDEO1:4501:45Apple and Microsoft are still attractive despite coronavirus: Portfolio managerStreet Signs Asia

2020/03/05, Customers look at the Apple's new iPhone 11 series smartphones in an Apple retail store on East Nanjing Road in Shanghai.Alex Ta | SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty ImagesWith the U.S.-China trade war last year and the outbreak of the new coronavirus, American technology firms Apple, Microsoft and Google have reportedly looked to move more production of their hardware products out of the world's second-largest economy. But reducing reliance on China won't be easy. "China manufacturing is far more embedded into American supply chains than ever before," Sean Maharaj, managing director at AArete, a global  management consultancy.Eyes on Vietnam, ThailandGoogle and Microsoft are accelerating their efforts to shift production of hardware to other parts of Asia, the Nikkei Asian Review reported last week. The problem for all these countries is that moving supply chains quickly will be a tough task and China will still have to play a major role. That might mean mitigating risk is a lot harder. The Nikkei, citing people with direct knowledge of the matter, said Google is set to begin production of an upcoming low-cost smartphone, rumored to be called the Pixel 4a, in Vietnam as soon as April. The upcoming flagship smartphone will also be manufactured there in the second half of the year, according to the report. Google has also asked a manufacturing partner in Thailand to prepare production lines for its so-called smart home products, such as voice assistant-enabled speakers, Nikkei said. Meanwhile, Microsoft is hoping to start production in Vietnam in the second quarter for its Surface line of notebooks and desktop PCs, it added.  Both of these companies' hardware has been mainly produced in China until now. Microsoft declined to comment while Google did not respond to two requests for information when contacted by CNBC.Last year, Apple was reportedly looking to start a trial for the production of its AirPods in Vietnam and asked suppliers to look into moving 15% to 30% of production from China to other parts of South East Asia. Apple did not respond to a request for comment when contacted by CNBC. Components 'choke point'To understand why, it's important to break down the manufacturing process. P.S. Subramaniam, partner in the strategic operations practice of Kearney, explains there are electronic components like displays and memory, modules such as cameras, and the assembly of the finished goods. Around 40% of finished goods come from China globally today and there is capacity in other areas of the world, Subramaniam said. So it's "easier (to) diversify away from China in the short term (3-6 months) for most companies which have well developed product and assembly process documentation," he added.Meanwhile, around 60% of modules are made in China. That's harder to move away "but still feasible", Subramaniam said.Shifting manufacturing locations helps diversify risk but isn't a cure-all, and in fact could become a game of whack-a-mole.Bryan MaVP of devices research at IDCThe components part is a bigger issue. "This is a singular choke point as components are a necessary ingredient in modules and finished goods assemblies. This is very hard to move as it requires entire ecosystems, Subramaniam told CNBC. Moving component manufacturing outside of China will also be difficult given how entrenched it is and how long it would take to build capacity in another country."Some assembly could be moved elsewhere, but these production lines take time to set up, and moreover no other country has the supply of labor as China," John Harmon, senior analyst at Coresight Research, told CNBC.On top of that, suppliers for components that companies rely on will have their manufacturing in China. That could make any move for an American technology firm to diversify a much longer process."Other suppliers Chinese, Taiwanese, Japanese or Korean which have set up facilities around these manufacturing plants in China will have to also diversify, which would make this switch a little bit less quick," Neil Shah, a partner at Counterpoint Research, told CNBC. 'Turning an aircraft around slowly'AArete's Maharaj said that diversifying supply chains away from China can happen, though it will be slow."This is like turning an aircraft around slowly," he told CNBC. "I think many companies have been seriously exploring supply chain risk mitigation strategies." "When corporations want to move quickly and make investments, they can. And, they work closely with local governments and businesses to make it happen," Maharaj said. "Given the above momentum — i.e. South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam etc. — this could all play out more quickly than we had initially expected." Ultimately though, moving some production out of China may not be something that reduces risk for companies significantly."Shifting manufacturing locations helps diversify risk but isn't a cure-all, and in fact could become a game of whack-a-mole," Bryan Ma, vice president of devices research at IDC, told CNBC. "The coronavirus has already spread to other countries, while trade war tariffs similarly could've targeted other countries over time."

2019/11/04, President Donald Trump with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella in the State Dining Room of the White House June 19, 2017 in Washington, DC.Getty ImagesDespite a history of employee concerns, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said in an interview published Monday that the company is pressing forward with its commitment to the massive Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, contract it won last month.The contract, which is worth up to $10 billion over the next 10 years, will see Microsoft build cloud resources for the Department of Defense. While some employees have expressed ethical concerns about doing work for the federal government, Nadella said the company has a responsibility to collaborate with American institutions."As an American company, we're not going to withhold technology from the institutions that we have elected in our democracy to protect the freedoms we enjoy," he said in an interview with Quartz. "That's something that is a principled stance we have taken, and we are very transparent about it."Nadella said he understands not all Microsoft employees will agree with the decision to pursue and fulfill the contract, but he is committed to being forthright about how the leadership team makes these decisions."It's not necessary for all of the 100,000-plus people at Microsoft to agree on everything, but for us, as a management team, [we need] to be very clear about the decisions we make, what are the principles and be transparent about it," he said.When Microsoft executives expressed interest in bidding on the contract roughly one year ago, employees pushed back with an open letter that called on Microsoft not to pursue the contract."This is a secretive $10 billion project with the ambition of building 'a more lethal' military force overseen by the Trump Administration," anonymous employees wrote in the letter. "If Microsoft is to be accountable for the products and services it makes, we need clear ethical guidelines and meaningful accountability governing how we determine which uses of our technology are acceptable, and which are off the table."It's not the first time a Big Tech company has faced backlash from employees over a government contract. Last year, Google faced resistance from employees about Project Maven, which gave the military access to the company's AI technology. Google eventually ended its Maven partnership with the government after the backlash. And last year, Amazon employees pushed back against their employer for selling facial recognition technology to law enforcement agencies. Also in 2018, more than 600 Salesforce employees signed a petition calling on the company to terminate its contract with U.S. Customs and Border Protection.Microsoft executives have had plenty of time to practice their response to such employee frustrations. Earlier this year about 100 employees wrote an open letter saying they were "alarmed" to learn that the company was selling its augmented reality HoloLens technology to the military. The letter in February called for Microsoft to terminate the contract, and there's no sign the company acted on the suggestion.Microsoft has shown no signs of uncertainty about its commitment to the lucrative contract."We are proud that we are an integral partner in DoD's overall mission cloud strategy," a Microsoft spokesperson said when the company was awarded the contract. Wedbush analyst Dan Ives called the deal a "game changer" for Microsoft, writing in a note to clients that the deal "will have a ripple effect for the company's cloud business for years to come."Read Nadella's full interview on Quartz.VIDEO24:2124:21Microsoft JEDI: The Empire Strikes BackFortt Knox

2020/06/03, Edwards Life Sciences: "I like Edward Life Sciences, but you must understand that right now that stock is going to be under distribution ... because it is not fitting with the awaken-America trade, but I bless it when it comes down because they've got the best, absolute best, medical equipment."Flex: "They were in the dog house for a while for accounting, ubt I think everything's come around and I still see them being used by a lot of companies. I'm going to say that's a buy. I like that idea."Microsoft: "I think Microsoft fits the pattern of what this market wants even as it is not a deep cyclical."Oracle: "For the long term it's OK. ... There's so many others that I think are better."Roku: "You want to be long Roku. I'm fine with Roku. I think it's good, but, again, Roku is a stay-at-home stock in an era where we've suddenly decided we don't have to stay at home anymore, so I expect it to be under pressure short term."Akamai Technologies: "I don't blame you for being conflicted because, you know, the stock's had a very big run and it seems it's kind of stalled out ... I'm not going to rave about it."VIDEO3:5903:59Cramer's lightning round: Microsoft fits the pattern of what this market wantsMad Money with Jim CramerDisclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Microsoft.DisclaimerQuestions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2019/11/13, From left, GitHub CEO Chris Wanstrath, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and future GitHub CEO Nat Friedman at GitHub headquarters in San Francisco.Source: MicrosoftGitHub, the code collaboration company that Microsoft purchased last year for $7.5 billion, has operated for 11 years without an iPhone app, preferring to keep its service in the browser.That's finally changing. On Tuesday, GitHub said it's rolling out a beta iOS app, giving iPhone and iPad users another way to share code, just as parent company Microsoft is cozying up to Apple and other longtime rivals. Earlier this year, Microsoft said that anyone using its Windows 10 mobile platform should switch to an iPhone or Android device.The iOS app, which the company says is available now as a beta release, will allow GitHub users to see when people mention them in discussions and accept suggestions for updating code in repositories that other users submit."There's a lot you can do on GitHub that doesn't require a complex development environment, like sharing feedback on a design discussion and reviewing a few lines of code," Shanku Niyogi, a former Microsoft employee who is now GitHub's senior vice president of product, wrote in a blog post.For GitHub, which has more than 40 million registered user accounts, the change reflects a larger determination to improve basic aspects of the service amid competition from companies like Atlassian and GitLab. GitHub executives have long suggested that while people generally consume information on mobile devices, they engage in more intensive work, like posting code to storage repositories, on desktop computers.But users are clearly asking for more collaboration options from mobile devices, and it's in Microsoft's interest to keep up with developer demands as software becomes a bigger focus for almost every company in every industry.GitHub doesn't currently have an official Android app. It announced one in 2012 but stopped updating it after 2014. A new one is coming soon and, in the meantime, several unofficial GitHub clients like PocketHub are available on Android and on iOS that allow users to access their GitHub data from mobile apps.GitHub has grown from 28 million user accounts when Microsoft announced the acquisition in June 2018.WATCH: Microsoft CEO: We welcome every cloud providerVIDEO4:2504:25Microsoft CEO: We welcome every cloud providerSquawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/12/07, VIDEO12:2912:29Microsoft President Brad Smith on tech and national securitySIMI VALLEY, Calif. — Amazon's decision to protest the Pentagon's cloud computing contract hasn't delayed Microsoft from working on the colossal Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, deal."We were working every day before we won that contract to make the product better," Microsoft President Brad Smith told CNBC's Morgan Brennan in an exclusive interview on the sidelines at the Reagan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California. "We have if anything been moving even faster since that contract was awarded," he added.The JEDI contract, which could be worth up to $10 billion for services rendered over as many as 10 years, was awarded to Microsoft on October 25. Last month, Amazon filed a notice in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims indicating a plan to protest the Pentagon's decision to award Microsoft the multibillion-dollar cloud contract."Numerous aspects of the JEDI evaluation process contained clear deficiencies, errors, and unmistakable bias — and it's important that these matters be examined and rectified," Amazon told CNBC in an email.Amazon's AWS chief Andy Jassy told CNBC's Jon Fortt in an exclusive interview that the cloud contracting was not adjudicated fairly."You know, there was significant political interference here," Jassy explained of the JEDI award."When you have a sitting president who's willing to be very vocal that they dislike a company and the CEO of that company, it makes it difficult for government agencies, including the DoD to make objective decisions without fear of reprisal. And I think that's dangerous and risky for our country," he added.The billionaire executive has been a constant source of frustration for the president. Bezos owns The Washington Post, which President Donald Trump regularly criticizes for its coverage of his administration. Trump also has gone after Amazon repeatedly for, as he claims, not paying its fair share of taxes and ripping off the U.S. Post Office.Trump said in July that companies conveyed that the specifications of the JEDI cloud contract favored Amazon."I never had something where more people are complaining," Trump said in July at the White House, adding that he was seriously considering looking at the Pentagon contract. "Some of the greatest companies in the world are complaining about it," he added, naming Microsoft, Oracle and IBM.VIDEO8:4008:40AWS' Andy Jassy: JEDI cloud contract was not adjudicated correctlySquawk AlleyOn Saturday, Smith responded to Jassy's comments and offered a few lessons learned from the cloud competition."In any technology race, if you think that you're so far ahead that you can't possibly lose, you're probably going to lose. That's what we've learned time and time again," Smith said."There's a second lesson that applied to ourselves -- never conclude that you're so far behind that you can't catch up if you work harder than your competitor. So we put more and more engineers working pretty much 7 days a week for 13 months to constantly create a better product."—CNBC's Yasmin Khorram contributed to this report.

2019/11/04, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks at an Economic Club of New York event in New York on Feb. 7, 2018.Mark Kauzlarich | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft has taken yet another step toward ending the era of proprietary software, rolling out technology that will let customers use its Azure cloud tools on competing services.Microsoft introduced Azure Arc software at its Ignite conference in Orlando, Florida, on Monday. Developers will be able to use Arc to deploy a database or virtual machine onto infrastructure from Amazon or Google and manage it from Azure.The move underscores the change in tone and strategy at Microsoft under CEO Satya Nadella, who succeeded Steve Ballmer in 2014 and began forging partnerships with longtime rivals so customers could choose the technology that works best for them rather than being forced to purchase bundles. For example, in recent years Microsoft has made its products more accessible on Apple's iOS devices and integrated the open-source Linux operating system into Windows.Jason Zander, executive vice president of Azure, said Arc builds on the company's past efforts to give customers access to rival vendors' software, through partnerships with the likes of Oracle, IBM's Red Hat and SAP."There wasn't a lot of debate or angst around bringing this goodness out to folks and making it easier for them to embrace these new solutions," Zander said in an interview.Azure, a critical piece of Microsoft's expansion, delivered 59% revenue growth in the latest quarter, more than quadruple the growth rate of the parent company. Microsoft is making acquisitions and introducing products that can give the company a leg up over larger rival Amazon Web Services and Google's cloud, which is smaller but growing at a rapid clip.Cloud providers have historically kept their cloud services tied tightly to the infrastructure they maintain in data centers located around the globe, but the emerging trend is to decouple those things, giving customers more options to use the products they like in their environment of choice. In 2015, Microsoft introduced Azure Stack, allowing businesses to use features of Microsoft's cloud technology in their local facilities.Amazon announced Outposts hardware last year to bring AWS services to companies' own data centers, and earlier this year, Google introduced Anthos, a product that will let companies run Google cloud software in their data centers and move workloads to public clouds. Outposts isn't yet available. Azure Arc will be able to run applications on Azure Stack along with other on-premises infrastructure, Zander said.Correction: A previous version of this story mistakenly said that Anthos isn't available yet.WATCH: Microsoft deal a 'great validation' of cloud strategy, says analystVIDEO5:1905:19Microsoft deal a 'great validation' of cloud strategy, says analystPower LunchFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/12/07, VIDEO12:2912:29Microsoft President Brad Smith on tech and national securitySIMI VALLEY, Calif. — Amazon's decision to protest the Pentagon's cloud computing contract hasn't delayed Microsoft from working on the colossal Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, deal."We were working every day before we won that contract to make the product better," Microsoft President Brad Smith told CNBC's Morgan Brennan in an exclusive interview on the sidelines at the Reagan National Defense Forum in Simi Valley, California. "We have if anything been moving even faster since that contract was awarded," he added.The JEDI contract, which could be worth up to $10 billion for services rendered over as many as 10 years, was awarded to Microsoft on October 25. Last month, Amazon filed a notice in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims indicating a plan to protest the Pentagon's decision to award Microsoft the multibillion-dollar cloud contract."Numerous aspects of the JEDI evaluation process contained clear deficiencies, errors, and unmistakable bias — and it's important that these matters be examined and rectified," Amazon told CNBC in an email.Amazon's AWS chief Andy Jassy told CNBC's Jon Fortt in an exclusive interview that the cloud contracting was not adjudicated fairly."You know, there was significant political interference here," Jassy explained of the JEDI award."When you have a sitting president who's willing to be very vocal that they dislike a company and the CEO of that company, it makes it difficult for government agencies, including the DoD to make objective decisions without fear of reprisal. And I think that's dangerous and risky for our country," he added.The billionaire executive has been a constant source of frustration for the president. Bezos owns The Washington Post, which President Donald Trump regularly criticizes for its coverage of his administration. Trump also has gone after Amazon repeatedly for, as he claims, not paying its fair share of taxes and ripping off the U.S. Post Office.Trump said in July that companies conveyed that the specifications of the JEDI cloud contract favored Amazon."I never had something where more people are complaining," Trump said in July at the White House, adding that he was seriously considering looking at the Pentagon contract. "Some of the greatest companies in the world are complaining about it," he added, naming Microsoft, Oracle and IBM.VIDEO8:4008:40AWS' Andy Jassy: JEDI cloud contract was not adjudicated correctlySquawk AlleyOn Saturday, Smith responded to Jassy's comments and offered a few lessons learned from the cloud competition."In any technology race, if you think that you're so far ahead that you can't possibly lose, you're probably going to lose. That's what we've learned time and time again," Smith said."There's a second lesson that applied to ourselves -- never conclude that you're so far behind that you can't catch up if you work harder than your competitor. So we put more and more engineers working pretty much 7 days a week for 13 months to constantly create a better product."—CNBC's Yasmin Khorram contributed to this report.

2019/10/08, Steve Ballmer, chairman of the Los Angeles Clippers and co-founder of Ballmer Group, speaks during the GeekWire Summit in Seattle on Oct. 8, 2019.David Ryder | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple sells more computers than Microsoft. Nevertheless, Steve Ballmer thinks Microsoft, with its ever-expanding line of hardware, is on the right track.Microsoft regained the title of world's most valuable company from Apple last year and has generally held onto it. The company has seen gains from its public cloud and the transition of its Office business to a subscription model. Hardware have drawn less attention, but growth has returned to Microsoft's Surface of tablets, laptops and other gadgets."Despite the rhetoric, there's actually plenty of profit in hardware, at least if you look at the number one hardware company in the world," Ballmer, owner of the Los Angeles Clippers, told GeekWire Co-Founder Todd Bishop on Tuesday at the 2019 GeekWire Summit conference in Seattle. "There's a lot of profit being made on the Mac and the iPhone and others. I think Microsoft gets a chance to participate through the Surface."Ballmer was involved in the 2012 introduction of the Surface tablet, which forms the core of the Surface lineup. Surface generated about $5.7 billion in revenue in the 2019 fiscal year, up 23% from the previous fiscal year.Ballmer said Microsoft's overall hardware operation, which totaled $6.1 billion in the 2019 fiscal year, is still growing into a big business. Microsoft does not disclose hardware or Surface profits.Last week Microsoft unveiled an array of new Surface devices, including the new Surface Earbuds and two products due next year, the Surface Neo two-screened PC and Android-based Surface Duo."The new Surface lineup is amazing! Amazing! In the category of competitiveness, go, Microsoft, go!" Ballmer said.Beyond his involvement with Surface, Ballmer was the person in charge when Microsoft announced its Azure cloud offering in 2008. "The cloud thing, I think, has worked out well," Ballmer said.And although Nadella was quoted as saying last week that "the operating system is no longer the most important layer for us," Ballmer said Windows remains a crucial source of profit, building on previous remarks about the subject."Windows makes billions and billions and billions per year. At least this investor wants to see that profit stream stay around for a very, very long time," Ballmer said. "There aren't a lot of new profit streams you can invent that generate the kind of profit that Windows does." Windows revenue grew less than 5% in the 2019 fiscal year.Ballmer said he remains a Microsoft investor. He was replaced by Satya Nadella as the company's CEO and left its board in 2014.WATCH: Fmr. Microsoft CEO: There are real issues in tech right nowVIDEO4:1204:12Fmr. Microsoft CEO: There are real issues in tech right nowHalftime ReportFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/12/04, VIDEO5:0005:00Watch CNBC's full interview with Slack CEO Stewart ButterfieldSquawk BoxSlack CEO Stewart Butterfield said on Wednesday that most of Slack's top customers use parts of Microsoft's Office 365 suite, but are choosing Slack for messaging anyway, instead of the competing Microsoft Teams app.Following Slack's third-quarter earnings report, Butterfield told analysts that the company now has more than 50 customers paying at least $1 million a year, up from 30 in the same quarter a year earlier. He said almost 70% of those customers also use Office 365, which includes popular products like Word, Excel, PowerPoint and SharePoint."In general we continue to see tremendous adoption across customers of the Office suite," Butterfield said. "They choose Slack despite having a bundle alternative" that wraps in Teams, he said.The battle with Microsoft is a critical one for Slack, because its much larger rival has a market cap in excess of $1 trillion and has been selling its enterprise software suite to the world's biggest companies for decades. Slack shares have dropped more than 40% since their first-day close in June and plunged 8.4% on Nov. 19, after Microsoft said publicly that Teams had more than 20 million daily active users, ahead of the 12 million users Slack reported in October.Slack has tried to get the market to focus on Slack's engagement metrics, noting that Microsoft may count people as users even if they're not really using Teams, but simply have it open while using other Office 365 apps and services. Butterfield said, "just look at the weak engagement numbers that Microsoft themselves reported about Teams."Slack's latest results suggest that it's holding up against Microsoft's challenges. The company reported revenue growth of 60% in the quarter to $168.7 million, topping analysts' estimates by more than $10 million, while also recording a narrower-than-expected loss. The stock rose about 3% in extended trading.VIDEO2:3502:35Where this analyst stands on the Slack-Microsoft debateButterfield acknowledged in the Q&A part of the analyst call that there's confusion in the market, which is "deliberately created." He said that Teams has users who were recently pulled over from Skype for Business. Now, when they use that service to make a phone call, they're a Teams user."It has nothing to do with what people do use Slack for, why people are switching to Slack, the strength of the platform or any of that," he said. "I want to just be candid and say we haven't figured out the right way to message that."Butterfield said the reason so many Office 365 users choose Slack for messaging is because it integrates with Microsoft services like calendar and various collaboration tools.A Microsoft representative didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.VIDEO1:1701:17Slack beats Wall Street estimates on Q3 earningsClosing BellFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/11/15, Former U.S. Attorney General Eric HolderPaul Morigi | WireImage | Getty ImagesMicrosoft has hired former United States Attorney General Eric Holder to conduct an audit of facial recognition company AnyVision to determine whether it complies with Microsoft's ethical principles on how the biometric surveillance technology should be used.Microsoft's venture capital arm, M12, invested in AnyVision as part of a $74 million Series A funding round in June. Under the terms of the deal, Microsoft stipulated that AnyVision should comply with its six ethical principles to guide its facial recognition work: fairness, transparency, accountability, nondiscrimination, notice and consent, and lawful surveillance.The last principle states, "We will advocate for safeguards for people's democratic freedoms in law enforcement surveillance scenarios and will not deploy facial recognition technology in scenarios that we believe will put these freedoms at risk."Read more from NBC NewsWhy did Microsoft fund an Israeli firm that surveils West Bank Palestinians?Microsoft will give away software to guard U.S. voting machinesMicrosoft wins major defense cloud contract, beating out AmazonAnyVision, headquartered in Israel, sells an "advanced tactical surveillance" software system, Better Tomorrow. It lets customers identify individuals and objects in any live camera feed, such as a security camera or smartphone, and then track targets as they move between different feeds.NBC News reported in October that according to five sources familiar with the matter, AnyVision's technology has powered a secret military surveillance project that has monitored Palestinians in the West Bank. The project was so successful that AnyVision won Israel's top defense price in 2018 for preventing "hundreds of terror attacks" using "large amounts of data."Human rights activist argued that AnyVision's work monitoring Palestinians in the West Bank was incompatible with its public statements about ethical standards for facial recognition technology."AnyVision's facial recognition technology is not being used for surveillance in the West Bank or the Gaza Strip, and AnyVision would not allow its technology to be used for that purpose," said AnyVision in a statement issued to NBC News last month.The company said that its technology was only used at checkpoints into and out of Israel, "similar to Global Entry in the United States."AnyVision disputed the accuracy of the NBC News story published in October, but did not respond to subsequent questions seeking clarifications regarding its use of the technology.AnyVision did not respond to a request for comment about the Holder audit when contacted Friday.When NBC News reported on this classified work in October, Microsoft said it took the allegations of surveillance seriously because "they would violate our facial recognition principles," a company spokesman said."If we discover any violation of our principles, we will end our relationship.""All of our installations have been examined and confirmed against not only Microsoft's ethical principles, but also our own internal rigorous approval process," AnyVision said at the time.Holder will lead a team of former federal prosecutors at law firm Covington & Burling to carry out the investigation into how AnyVision's technology is being used."They will move quickly, reviewing documents and conducting on the ground interviews with Anyvision employees and others to ensure a full and thorough investigation," said a Microsoft spokesman in a statement.In 2017, Uber hired Holder to investigate allegations of sexual harassment published by former employee Susan Fowler. Airbnb hired him the previous year to help develop the company's anti-discrimination policies, after reports that some Airbnb hosts had rejected African-American and trangender travelers.

2019/10/03, Microsoft unveiled the new Neo laptop.Microsoft announced seven new products in its Surface lineup Wednesday, but the most important one is the Surface Neo, a new dual-screen computer that folds up like a book.If the Surface Neo works — and that's a huge caveat because Microsoft wouldn't let me touch the prototype Wednesday — it will give us a brand new kind of computer, the same way the Surface introduced new two-in-ones when it was first announced in 2012.The Surface Neo is thin, light and can show two apps on two different screens when it's open. A detachable keyboard can magnetically attach to one screen, allowing you to use it like a traditional laptop. Or you can just use one display like a tablet.There isn't anything like it out there, but its form factor has represented Microsoft's vision of the future since at least 2008, when Microsoft was reportedly working on a similar device called the Courier. That never launched, but the Neo is set to launch by the holidays of 2020.Here's why it's important.It's a refinement of what the Surface representsThe Surface Neo also has a touchscreen display above the keyboard.When the Surface first launched in 2012, it was marketed as one product that can do everything. It didn't do that at first, but by the time the Surface Pro rolled around in 2013 it started to become something practical that actually worked.You could use it to watch movies or browse the web in tablet mode, or you could connect a keyboard and do real work.In the years following, Microsoft hasn't made massive changes to the Surface. It's worked to improve the hardware by slimming it down and making it more powerful. It's beefed up the pen, the display, the keyboard, the speakers and more.But the idea of the Surface has stayed the same: It's a tablet with a kickstand that serves as a full-fledged Windows machine. Along the way, it has showed how other partners can build similar products that run Windows 10, Microsoft's real moneymaker. But it still doesn't quite do everything. The Neo might.An example of the future of WindowsThe Surface Neo folds open and has two screens.Microsoft needs something more exciting than the Surface, which is probably why it built the Neo. It can't rely on partners to come up with these ideas, since Microsoft is the one building the software behind its products.Microsoft needs to be the one with the vision of where Windows goes next. The partners can do the rest. That's where the Surface Neo comes in.The Neo runs Windows 10X, a special version of Windows 10 that's designed for the new two-screen form factor. With the Neo and Windows 10X, Microsoft is introducing new software and hardware that other companies can use and mimic to build new Windows machines of their own.Remember: Microsoft isn't a hardware company. It sells hardware, but it wins when more people use Windows computers, no matter who builds them.It's OK if the Surface Neo fails at firstThe dual-screen Surface Neo 5.The Surface Neo doesn't need to be a hit at first. The original Surface RT bombed back in 2012, since it ran WindowsRT, a version of Windows 8 that didn't support very many apps.But the hardware was right: People like computers that work as tablets and can plug into keyboards. The Surface ushered in a whole new two-in-one era of devices. Dell, Microsoft, Lenovo, HP, Samsung and others all sell computers that are just like the Surface. Even Apple started adding keyboards to the iPad with the launch of the iPad Pro in 2015.A new way to use WindowsMicrosoft unveiled the Surface Neo on Wednesday.Right now, you probably use Windows in one of two places: At your desk or, if you have a Surface, maybe in your lap. But the Surface Neo might make it more of a computer you can use while walking around, similar to an iPad but potentially more powerful since it can run all Windows software."Surface Neo seems like the perfect kind of device I could take from meeting to meeting and walk the trade show floor with," Patrick Moorhead, founder and president of Moor Insights & Strategy said. "When I get back to the office, I could see plugging it into a large display, keyboard and mouse, using Neo as a second display."You can do that with an iPad, but the current Surface Pro is too big to walk around a trade show floor with. The Neo, with a smaller 9-inch screen, makes it more compelling for on-the-go use.It needs to launchThe dual-screen Surface Neo.Much of this won't matter if Microsoft doesn't get the Surface Neo out the door. It's promised by the end of 2020, but lots of companies announce products that never make it to the market. It's possible this happens to the Neo, or it has so many problems that nobody wants to buy one. But maybe it fails and Microsoft refines it a year later. Or a partner creates a device that does it better. If that happens, then we have the next generation of exciting Windows devices, and that's all Microsoft really needs.VIDEO5:0205:02First look at Microsoft's new folding phone the Surface DuoTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2019/11/12, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella at a company event in Washington in 2014.Source: MicrosoftMicrosoft's latest update to its Windows 10 operating system is focused on improving the quality of existing features — like simplifying the creation of calendar items and upgrading the search experience — rather than adding new tools that users have to learn.The upgrade, which the company announced in a blog post on Tuesday, marks Microsoft's semi-annual enhancement to its flagship operating system, which powers over 900 million devices, including PCs and tablets. Even as Microsoft pushes deeper into cloud software and infrastructure, it still counts on Windows for 16% of revenue. While Apple rolls out one MacOS update per year, and Google and Apple each issue new versions of their mobile operating systems annually, Microsoft has stuck with its pattern of two major releases each year since 2015, when it released the original version of Windows 10. Prior to its current pattern of updates, Microsoft used to issue new versions of Windows every few years.Some users have expressed concerns that there were too many big updates, which can be a particular challenge at big companies with thousands of employees that need to stay on top of the changes. "Today, we are announcing that the Windows 10 November 2019 Update is now available for users on the most recent versions of Windows 10 who seek the new update via Windows Update," John Cable, Microsoft program management director, wrote in the blog post. "We have worked to make this a great experience for all devices, and an exceptionally fast update process for devices running the May 2019 Update."Starting on Tuesday, Windows 10 users can request the new update by going to Settings, then to the Update & Security page and then the Windows Update section. From there, they can hit the Check for update button.A more feature-rich update will follow in the first half of 2020.Here are some of the new things included in the November update to Windows 10:You'll be able to activate non-Microsoft virtual assistants, like Amazon Alexa, using a voice command from the Windows 10 lock screen.You can create a new calendar event simply by opening up the calendar flyout from the Taskbar.The search box in the File Explorer will use Windows Search, which means files from OneDrive will show up with other search results.If your PC has the right components, you could see battery life and power efficiency gains.You might also find performance and reliability improvements because of a change to the way Windows assigns workloads to certain processor cores.WATCH: Microsoft is the house that Satya has rebuilt, says analystVIDEO1:5801:58Microsoft is the house that Satya has rebuilt, says analystSquawk BoxFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/10/02, Microsoft unveiled the new Neo laptop.Microsoft's Surface Neo two-screened laptop, due out next year, sparked a lot of interest when Microsoft unveiled it Wednesday -- although it won't ship until next holiday season, it looks like a genuine step forward from traditional laptops and tablets."Surface Neo is the first MS device I'll buy," Guillermo Rauch, CEO of start-up Zeit, wrote in a tweet on Wednesday.tweetThe catch is, it's not clear if all popular Windows apps will work the same way as the ones Microsoft demonstrated on stage. For that to happen, software makers will have to put some effort in -- and there's no guarantee they'll do so unless the product takes off, creating a potential chicken-and-egg situation.The challenge gets at the complexity of shipping an operating system that runs lots of software, and it's a long-standing challenge for Microsoft.Specifically, the Surface Neo will rely on a new "expression" of its Windows 10 operating system called Windows 10X. In 2012 announced the Surface RT that used a variant of Windows 8 called Windows RT, and in 2017 it introduced the Surface Laptop that booted Windows 10 S. These specialty versions limited what people could do with their devices.Surface Neo and Windows 10X probably won't be financially material to Microsoft, as it's more focused these days on the Azure public cloud and Office 365 subscription-based productivity apps. Even so, Microsoft is the most valuable publicly traded company, and its high-concept visions for the future of computing sometimes set the pace for the rest of the industry -- for instance, Apple execs initially scoffed at the idea of a hybrid tablet-laptop when the first Surface was introduced in 2012, but in 2015 Apple introduced the iPad Pro which featured an optional add-on keyboard.How's it going to work, exactly?Right now, Microsoft has provided few technical details of how software makers will be able to take advantage of the new dual-screen form-factor."We'll ... be engaging with our app developer ecosystem as Windows 10X presents unique opportunities for them to enrich their experiences with dual-screen PCs. We'll have more to share on that in the coming months," Eran Megiddo, corporate vice president for Windows and education at Microsoft, wrote in a blog post on Wednesday.Developers don't need to do anything special in order to make Windows apps work on devices that will run Windows 10X, but developers will be able to optimize apps for dual-screen devices, Microsoft says. Traditional Win32 apps will run in containers on Windows 10X, and the variant will also support Progressive Web Apps and Universal Windows Apps, the Verge reported. It's not clear that they all will immediately be able to do what Microsoft apps like Outlook did at Microsoft's Wednesday event, like expand from one screen onto both, or show different app content on each of the two screens."Our goal is that the vast majority of apps in the Windows Store will work with Windows 10X," Microsoft partner group program manager Carmen Zlateff told the publication. The Windows Store doesn't necessarily have every app that people might want to use, though.The company will reportedly give explain more about Windows 10X at its Build conference in Seattle in May 2020."I'm fascinated Microsoft pre-announced this a year early, but this device needs a lot of application and Windows 10X development work for apps to flow perfectly," Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy told CNBC in an email on Wednesday.WATCH: Microsoft unveils Surface Neo two-screened laptop, due to be released in 2020VIDEO3:5203:52Microsoft unveils Surface Neo two-screened laptop, for 2020 releaseSquawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/08/02, VIDEO1:1001:10Volatility's not going away, says Richard BernsteinSquawk BoxStocks rose on Monday, the first trading day of August, as Wall Street tried to build on its four-month winning streak.The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 236.08 points higher, or 0.9%, at 26,664.40. The Nasdaq Composite jumped 1.5% to an all-time high, ending the day at 10,902.80. The S&P 500 gained 0.7% to 3,294.61, its highest closing level since Feb. 21. The S&P 500 is also within 3% of reaching an all-time high. Shares of major tech companies led the way higher for the broader market. Microsoft gained more than 5% after confirming reports about being in talks to buy social video app TikTok in the U.S. The talks come even as President Donald Trump threatens to ban TikTok because of security concerns over its parent company's ties to China. Apple and Netflix rose 2.5% and 2%, respectively. "We're seeing a rally in the tech sector really follow through from some of the earnings reports we saw last week," said James Ragan, director of wealth management research at D.A. Davidson. "The S&P 500 is a bit above our estimate of fair value, though. If we look out down the road, you could certainly see the market trade higher, but we need better visibility" on the economy and the coronavirus pandemic. Some of the other factors driving the market higher included:Eli Lilly announcing the start of a phase 3 trial of LY-CoV555, an experimental coronavirus antibody treatment that may prevent the virus from spreading among U.S. nursing home staffers and residents. The stock gained 1.7%.Stocks got a boost from better-than-expected manufacturing data. The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing PMI rose to 54.2 in July, topping a Dow Jones estimate of 53.8.Investors also cheered an earnings season in which companies are beating estimates at a record rate. Data compiled by FactSet showed that, through Friday, 84% of S&P 500 companies have beaten earnings expectations. If beat rate stays at that level, it will be the highest since FactSet started tracking the metric in 2008.The major averages were coming off their fourth consecutive monthly gain in July, with the S&P 500 rising 5.5% and the Nasdaq jumping more than 6% in that time period. The Dow gained 2.4% last month.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsTo be sure, investor attention has also turned to Washington as Covid-19 stimulus negotiations continue."Increased unemployment claims and decreasing consumer confidence show some deterioration of the U.S. consumer backdrop," wrote Dennis DeBusschere, market strategist at Evercore ISI."If an agreement to extend unemployment support passes soon, the nascent Cyclical/risk-on rally from earlier in July can continue," he added. "Until then, risk-on factors will face headwinds despite the sharp decline in COVID net hospitalizations."Republican and Democratic lawmakers remain at a standstill over some components of the next coronavirus relief legislation. The key debate that separates the two parties is the federal boost to unemployment assistance, which was set at $600 per week in March but recently expired. While the White House has come out in favor of reducing the federal assistance to $200 a week, Democrats have called for keeping it at the $600 level.Other provisions, such as another round of $1,200 stimulus checks, have broader support from both political parties.Traders and economists alike are also eager for the July jobs report, which the Labor Department is scheduled to release on Friday. The once-a-month jobs update will be of critical importance this month, especially since the number of people filing for unemployment benefits has been edging higher. According to Dow Jones, about 1.264 million new jobs are expected, well below the 4.8 million added in June, and the unemployment rate is expected to fall to 10.6% from 11.1%.Still, market moves around the release could be mixed given the disparity in forecasts. Some economists expect more than 2 million jobs were added, and some even see flat or negative payrolls.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2019/09/24, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks at the Digital-Life-Design conference in Munich, Germany, on January 16, 2017.Tobias Hase | picture alliance | Getty ImagesMicrosoft is gearing up to roll out its cloud gaming service, which will allow users to play video games from their Android-powered smartphones.In a blog post Tuesday, Microsoft said that starting next month, consumers in the U.S., U.K. and Korea will be able to register for the xCloud preview. Players will need a wireless Xbox One controller and a phone or tablet that runs Android 6.0 (or later) and supports Bluetooth."We now want you to play with us and share your feedback on Project xCloud so we can iterate and improve, week after week," Kareem Choudhry, corporate vice president for xCloud at Microsoft, wrote in the post. "Join us, have fun playing, share your stories and feedback, and be part of the journey."Despite moving away from some consumer areas like health devices, e-book sales and even its own mobile phone system, CEO Satya Nadella has stuck with gaming and is looking to xCloud as another way to showcase Microsoft's cloud-computing infrastructure. The new service also extends Nadella's strategy of building products that can work across devices rather than just on Microsoft machines.Microsoft hasn't yet disclosed the price or launch date of xCloud and said it will open up access to more people over time. It also isn't saying anything about availability on iOS devices. A Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC the company will provide information about xCloud on other platforms later.Microsoft said last year that it was working on the game streaming service. Google and Apple have since announced subscription mobile game services, allowing people to pay for access to games that can be installed on mobile devices. Additionally, Google has a more direct competitor called Stadia, a cloud-based game streaming service that will launch in November for $9.99 a month.VIDEO1:1501:15Apple introduces Arcade, its new subscription gaming serviceNews VideosWhile Microsoft lacks its own major mobile operating system, it has deeper roots in gaming than either Apple or Google — the original Xbox was released in 2001. Gaming accounted for 9% of Microsoft's total revenue in the most recent fiscal year, growing 10% from the year earlier.On xCloud, users will be able to play Gears 5, Halo 5: Guardians, Killer Instinct and Sea of Thieves through an Android app called Microsoft Game Streaming. More titles will be added.The preview will run "until customers are consistently reporting a great, fun experience and the technology meets our internal quality standards," Choudhry wrote.In June, Microsoft provided an early peek into the technology at the E3 video game industry conference in Los Angeles. Some people who tried the demos reported seeing a lag in games they played.tweetKeith Weiss, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a report this week that gaming provides "a great workload for Azure" and "fits well with the commercial strategy at Microsoft." Weiss recommends buying the stock.WATCH: Next big battleground in gaming is Netflix-style streaming: ExpertVIDEO3:3003:30Next big battleground in gaming is Netflix-style streaming: ExpertSquawk Box EuropeFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/03/24, Facebook's CEO Mark Zuckerberg (L) speaks with Microsoft's CEO Satya Nadella after posing for a family picture with guests who attend the "Tech for Good" Summit at the Elysee Palace in Paris, on May 23, 2018.Charles Platiau | AFP | Getty ImagesThe World Health Organization has partnered with Facebook, Microsoft and several other tech companies for a hackathon to promote the development of software to take on challenges related to the coronavirus pandemic.The #BuildforCOVID19 hackathon was announced on Tuesday and will begin accepting project submissions on Thursday. Along with Facebook and Microsoft, tech companies Twitter, WeChat, TikTok, Pinterest, Slack and Giphy are also participating. The tech companies "will be sharing resources to support participants throughout the submission period."Facebook "features like Blood Donations and Crisis Response were first built during hackathons and are now used by millions of people worldwide," wrote Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg in a post promoting the hackathon. "I'm hopeful that some useful prototypes and ideas will come out of this one as well."The hackathon is encouraging software developers to build projects focused around the themes of health, vulnerable populations, businesses, community, education and entertainment.The deadline to submit projects is Monday. The hackathon will announce the top projects on April 3."Given the isolation currently being experienced within communities right now, we want to create an online space where developers could ideate, experiment and build software solutions to help address this crisis," reads a description of the hackathon.Around the world, there are more than 375,498 cases of the coronavirus with at least 16,362 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University.VIDEO0:5500:55Facebook sees weakening in its ads business due to the coronavirusClosing Bell

2019/11/22, Jeff Bezos, CEO, AmazonMark Ralston | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon Web Services on Friday confirmed that it has filed a lawsuit challenging the Defense Department's decision to award Microsoft a major contract for cloud services.The JEDI (Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure) deal, which could be worth up to $10 billion, was hotly contested and marks a big win for Microsoft as it chases down AWS in cloud infrastructure.The high-profile process was controversial because President Trump got personally involved, expressing opposition to awarding the contract to Amazon, whose CEO, Jeff Bezos, has been a target of Trump's attacks as owner of the Washington Post. Amazon has submitted videos of Trump to the Court of Federal Claims, which is handling the bid protest. The complaint itself is not publicly accessible."The Complaint and related filings contain source selection sensitive information, as well as AWS's proprietary information, trade secrets, and confidential financial information, the public release of which would cause either party severe competitive harm," Amazon told the court in a filing, while seeking a protective order. "The record in this bid protest likely will contain similarly sensitive information."The Pentagon announced that Microsoft had won the contract on October 25. Soon after, Amazon said it was surprised that Microsoft had received it. Amazon announced plans to protest the award last week and said that the process had contained biases and mistakes."We have confidence in the qualified staff at the Department of Defense, and we believe the facts will show they ran a detailed, thorough and fair process in determining the needs of the warfighter were best met by Microsoft," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Friday.IBM and Oracle had also sought to win the contract but were removed from consideration.The case has been assigned to Judge Patricia Elaine Campbell-Smith. Amazon said in a filing that assigning the case to another judge on the court, Eric Bruggink, "would conserve judicial resources and promote the efficient administration of justice" because Bruggink ruled on a bid protest over JEDI that Oracle filed last year. That case is now before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.WATCH: Microsoft JEDI: The Empire Strikes BackVIDEO24:2124:21Microsoft JEDI: The Empire Strikes BackFortt KnoxFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/09/23, Satya Nadella speaking at the 2016 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.David A. Grogan | CNBC Microsoft is rolling out technology to help retailers manage their business online, its latest effort to attract customers who are in a constant battle with Amazon.Microsoft on Monday introduced Dynamics 365 Commerce, which will let brands create detailed personalized product web pages with room for customer ratings and reviews. It integrates with other Microsoft software, so businesses can communicate with customers after they make a purchase or view charts on sales performance.Retail is a particularly fruitful market for Microsoft as the software company's Azure business takes on Amazon Web Services in cloud infrastructure. Big box stores like Walmart, grocery chains such as Kroger and pharmacies like Walgreens are increasingly choosing to park their cloud servers with Microsoft so as not to pour money into the pocket of their biggest competitor. AWS still has numerous retail customers, including J.Crew, Kenneth Cole, Levi's and Sainsbury's.Dynamics 365 Commerce is an expansion of Microsoft's Dynamics 365 for Retail, which focused on supply chain management, staffing and promotions. Microsoft started developing the new technology following conversations with customers about a year and a half ago, Alysa Taylor, a corporate vice president at Microsoft, told CNBC in an interview last week. It's now available in private preview.Marks and Spencer, which has food and clothing stores in the United Kingdom, is starting to use a separate new Microsoft service, Dynamics 365 Connected Store, which can send alerts to employees based on information gathered from sensors and cameras installed in physical stores.Marks and Spencer has been an Azure customer for years and began using it for e-commerce operations earlier this year, said Paul Airey, the company's head of technology for retail and digital stores. Now it's looking to tap technology to improve the shopping experience for customers."It's fair to say, as a retailer I don't think we're the only ones who wouldn't be choosing AWS," Airey said.The Information reported in April that Microsoft was considering releasing software to help retailers with digital commerce, citing comments from a company executive who expressed "a lot of respect" for online commerce company Shopify. Shopify's stock has climbed 130% this year. Competition could also come from Adobe, which acquired e-commerce company Magento last year for $1.68 billion.Microsoft has previously sought to help businesses with digital commerce. In 2000, the company launched bCentral Business Web Services to bring e-commerce to small businesses along with domain names, email addresses and email.WATCH: Here's what Microsoft's big breakout means for the marketsVIDEO9:1909:19Here's what Microsoft's big breakout means for the marketsFast MoneyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/10/16, Satya Nadella, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp., speaks during a meeting of the Economic Club of Washington in Washington, D.C., on Oct. 4, 2017.Zach Gibson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesSatya Nadella received more money from Microsoft in the most recent fiscal year as the company achieved business targets and grew its stock price.The CEO received $42.9 million in total compensation, mostly in stock awards, in the 2019 fiscal year that ended on June 30, according to Microsoft's annual proxy statement, which came out on Wednesday. The figure is up 66% from the prior fiscal year but lower than the $84.3 million Nadella received in the 2014 fiscal year, when he took over from Steve Ballmer.Nadella's pay bump highlights Microsoft's turnaround under his leadership, as it's doubled down on cloud services. A year ago Microsoft took back from Apple the title of most valuable public company in the world; on Wednesday its market capitalization exceeded $1.07 trillion.Nadella received a $1 million base salary bump, and an increase in stock awards. In reviewing his equity compensation Microsoft's independent directors pointed to "Mr. Nadella's strategic leadership, including his efforts to strengthen trust with customers, drive for a company-wide culture change, and successful entry and expansion into new technologies and markets."The independent directors also cited the growth of Microsoft's Intelligent Cloud business, which includes the Azure cloud that competes with Amazon Web Services. Intelligent Cloud was the largest of Microsoft's three segments for the first time in more than three years in the most recent quarter.Microsoft in the 2019 fiscal year continued to exceed several key targets, including LinkedIn sessions, revenue from Commercial Cloud services and Windows 10 monthly active devices. And in the fiscal year Nadella received part of a long-term performance-based stock award."During the first five-year performance period, Microsoft's market capitalization increased $509 billion (from $302 billion to $811 billion), and Microsoft's relative TSR was in the 97th percentile, resulting in Mr. Nadella earning and vesting in the maximum 900,000 shares," Microsoft said in the filing.WATCH: Satya Nadella has been tactically more impressive than Apple CEO Tim Cook, says portfolio managerVIDEO5:0505:05Satya Nadella has been tactically more impressive than Apple CEO Tim Cook, says portfolio managerSquawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/02/07, VIDEO3:5003:50One top Dow stock setting up for trouble, chart watcher warnsTrading NationMicrosoft is one of the top Dow stocks this year, but the trillion-dollar tech stock could be at risk of tumbling.Matt Maley, chief market strategist at Miller Tabak, sees worrying signs of a looming pullback in its charts."It's had this unbelievable move in recent weeks and recent months, and it's taken the stock to a very overbought condition. You look at its weekly RSI chart, it's got above 85. In fact, today it's probably reached 86. You have to go back all the way to 1997 to find a time where it's been more overbought," Maley said on CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Thursday.Its RSI, or relative strength index, is a momentum measure that reads overbought or oversold conditions in a stock. A measure above 70 signals overbought conditions, flagging higher potential of a pullback."The thing is every time it's gotten above 80 in the last 20 to 25 years, it has seen some sort of a pullback, and that's usually almost always at least 10%. One time it was like 5% or 6%, but most of the time it's a full correction," said Maley.A 10% decline would take the stock to roughly $166 from $185. That would erase February's gains."Don't sell the stock, but [investors] might want to hold off reaching and adding to the stock right here. And short-term traders might want to take a few chips off the table and look at going back into the stock at a lower level because it is getting right for that kind of pullback, and no stock moves in a straight line," said Maley.Mark Tepper, president of Strategic Wealth Partners, says any weakness is opportunity to buy even more Microsoft shares."If it pulls back 10%, I'll be backing up the truck to buy more. The thing about these overbought stocks is that they can stay overbought for long periods of time, and I view that as a sign of good positive strong momentum," Tepper said during the same segment.Tepper argues that its fundamentals should continue to fuel growth in sales and its stock performance."It's not that old, sleepy company of about a decade ago. They've evolved, they've shifted their business, now they're focusing around Azure and Office 365. You've got Azure growing at over 60% year over year, and growth is accelerating. You've got Office 365 growing at 30% year over year and accelerating," said Tepper.Disclosure: Tepper and Strategic Wealth Partners have a position in Microsoft.Disclaimer

2019/09/20, VIDEO3:0903:09Pro breaks down why investors should love MicrosoftTrading NationMicrosoft is powering up.The stock hit all-time highs Thursday, leading the Dow for the week, after the company's board approved a $40 billion buyback program and hiked its quarterly dividend.Todd Gordon, founder of TradingAnalysis.com, said Microsoft's outperformance is clear in the charts."It's been a bullish stock all the way back to 2015," Gordon said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "The chart below us here is Microsoft into the QQQs so if this chart below is rising, Microsoft is outperforming the Nasdaq and that's absolutely what's happening here and there's no signs of giving back here on this chart."Microsoft shares have surged nearly 40% so far this year, tracking for their eighth annual gain in a row. The QQQ ETF, which tracks the 100 largest stocks in the Nasdaq, is up 25% this year.While Microsoft's charts remain supportive, Gordon does see one critical level that could put the brakes on this rally."I think we will meet resistance in the upper end of this channel around $155 so if we start to hesitate there, watch out," he said.A move to $155 represents roughly 10% upside from current levels. It would also mark a new high.Microsoft still looks like a buy to Mark Tepper, president of Strategic Wealth Partners."We'd stick with it. I mean, what's not to love about Microsoft right now? The valuation is probably fair, but I mean you're paying for solid growth and execution. Investors want that, and that's what Microsoft delivers," Tepper said Thursday on "Trading Nation."Strong growth in cloud computing should propel more upside for Microsoft, potentially eclipsing Amazon's presence in the space, Tepper said."They've got some advantages on Amazon and they do have the ability to overtake them over the next few years," said Tepper. "They're already in corporate America with their office suite, which pretty much everyone has and uses. Amazon isn't already in corporate America like that."Amazon has risen 21% this year compared with Microsoft's 40% gain.Disclosure: TradingAnalysis.com and Strategic Wealth Partners have positions in Microsoft.Disclaimer

2019/10/02, Of the seven new products Microsoft announced on Wednesday, five will ship this holiday season: the Surface Pro X, the Surface Pro 7, the Surface Laptop 3 in 13.5-inch and 15-inch sizes, and the Surface Earbuds. The two others, the Surface Neo computer and the Surface Duo phone, are expected in 2020. While Microsoft demonstrated them, we weren't able to touch them or put them through their paces.I had a chance to check out this year's products. Here's what you need to know:Surface Laptop 3Surface Laptop 3Todd Haselton | CNBCHear me out — I think this computer might be better than Apple's latest MacBooks, and the main reason is the keyboard. It's awesome and provides a much smoother typing surface than the MacBook Air (which I'm using right now). I also love that Microsoft ditched the soft fabric material on some models, instead adding aluminum to the whole area around the keyboard. It looks sharp.Plus, there's an even larger trackpad, on par with a MacBook, more ports than Apple's computers and a touchscreen. I love Apple devices, but this computer starts at $999 and it packs a punch. I prefer the 13.5-inch model to the 15-inch option because it's more portable.I'll know more when I sit down for my final review, but I already think these offer better value than Apple's current crop of laptops. Keep in mind, however, that Apple may launch a 16-inch MacBook Pro this fall, so Microsoft may not have the throne for long.Surface Pro XMicrosoft Surface Pro XTodd Haselton | CNBCI wish this was the Surface Pro 7. I'm a big fan of the slimmer design and the screen that runs almost edge-to-edge. I love that it promises 13 hours of battery life and cellular connectivity. The pen that hides right in the keyboard fold is really convenient. But it's thin for a reason: this runs on a new SQ1 ARM-based processor that Microsoft built with Qualcomm. That means it's running Windows for ARM instead of a full-blown version of Windows that can run all of the apps you know and love.Microsoft Surface Pro XTodd Haselton | CNBCMicrosoft has struggled to get more traditional Windows apps to work on the ARM version of Windows, but the company appears confident that developers will fill the gap with apps that people need. Adobe has been one partner on this front. I'll need to wait until my full review to see. At $999, I want this device to run all of my apps.Surface Pro 7Surface Pro 7There are three big updates here. The Surface Pro 7 can charge quickly (up to 90% in about an hour), it has a new USB-C port for attaching modern peripherals and it's faster than last year's model thanks to Intel's 10th-generation chip. The design hasn't changed much, but that's OK. I still like the detachable keyboard, which is easy to navigate, and the really portable form factor. I just wish Microsoft would include the keyboard in its $799 starting price.Surface EarbudsMicrosoft Surface EarbudsTodd Haselton | CNBCSkip these, at least for now. At $250, I expected features like noise reduction and better gesture controls. My gestures didn't always register when I tried to change the song or adjust the volume, and instead often launched Cortana (a double-tap). You get 24 hours of battery life, but the case felt a little cheap.Surface EarbudsTodd Haselton | CNBCThey also look silly, like I tried to stuff two bottle caps in my ears. At least it includes USB-C for charging, instead of microUSB like Amazon's new buds. In general, though, these feel like they should cost $99, not $250. Maybe we'll get a break before they ship ahead of the holidays.WATCH: Microsoft unveils Surface Neo two-screened laptopVIDEO3:5203:52Microsoft unveils Surface Neo two-screened laptop, for 2020 releaseSquawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech product news.

2019/11/18, VIDEO4:0704:07We're very committed to China in many aspects: Microsoft Greater China CEOEast Tech WestTechnology giant Microsoft has seen more business opportunities in the Chinese market in the last year, a top company executive said on Monday"For us, it has been even more opportunities than prior," said Alain Crozier, Microsoft's chairman and CEO for the Greater China region."First of all, we help Chinese companies do business abroad; this is one of the biggest streams of activity," Crozier told CNBC's Deirdre Bosa at the East Tech West conference in the Nansha district of Guangzhou, China.Many foreign companies are also heading to China and looking to Microsoft to provide technological solutions that will work in the world's second largest economy as well as elsewhere, Crozier added.His statements come as the U.S. and China remain locked in a bitter trade dispute."When we look at Microsoft, we try to work on what we can control," said Crozier."The one thing we do is to make sure that our business model and mission really help our customers achieve what they are trying to achieve with technology," said Crozier.Microsoft remains committed to China. The company first set up R&D centers in China about 25 years ago, and opened its fourth research and development center in Shanghai in January, even amid the U.S.-China trade dispute, he said.As for wider industry concerns about operating in China, Crozier said Microsoft is seen as a leader in good business practices with consistent principles globally."We have in terms of AI (artificial intelligence) and ethics, a set of principles around transparency and security and protection and so on and so forth, very important, we stick to that. We also in some areas (are) not providing the technology to some customers, no matter who those customers are, public or private; we don't," said Crozier."So we have decided that we will play a very strategic role providing our platform to our customers for them to build on top of, and we provide them with a set of technology, but sometimes we decide that we will not provide a set of technology to some of our customers to make sure this is not misused," he added.

2020/07/28, Middle linebacker Bobby Wagner #54 of the Seattle Seahawks looks on prior to their game against the Baltimore Ravens at CenturyLink Field on October 20, 2019 in Seattle, Washington.Abbie Parr | Getty ImagesWhile the National Football League tries to plot its 2020 regular-season impacted by Covid-19, star linebacker Bobby Wagner is busy making post-football plans.The Seattle Seahawks Pro Bowler is joining a new tech fund established by Fuse Venture Partners. The firm says its focus is "early-stage, venture capital fund investing in Seattle-based seed and Series A companies." Wagner is joining as a venture partner alongside other investors, including former Microsoft exec John Connors and former Amazon executive Satbir Khanuja.Fuse said it wants to help a new wave e-commerce companies "that are reinventing the modern economy with software." In a statement to CNBC, Wagner echoed that mission, adding Fuse, led by general partner Kellan Carter, is committed "to working relentlessly with innovative people to help them achieve success." "It's this commitment that uniquely positions us as the best partner for the next generation of companies reimagining and reinventing how work is done through AI, machine learning and automation software," Wagner said."Seattle sits at the epicenter of the innovation driving enterprises' digital transformation efforts," said Carter. "There's a booming, untapped and thriving ecosystem of emerging entrepreneurs in the region."Amazon, the dominant force in e-commerce, is based in Seattle, meaning Fuse would be investing in potential Amazon competitors.Wagner is the second NFL star in the last week to get involved in the e-commerce space. Former Seahawks running back Marshawn Lynch announced his partnership with Fanatics in a deal that will see the e-commerce company operate Lynch's Beast Mode apparel website.Wagner, who famously negotiated his $54 million deal with the Seahawks in 2019, also became an investor in Denali Therapeutics in 2014 and joined Brooklyn Nets star Kevin Durant in investing in venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz's Cultural Leadership Fund.Wagner joined CNBC's "Squawk Alley" to discuss his new venture:VIDEO7:2407:24NFL linebacker Bobby Wagner on why he's launching a VC firm in SeattleSquawk Alley

2020/03/17, VIDEO4:1304:13Microsoft leads mega-cap tech losses, but chart watcher sees buy opportunityTrading NationThe megacap tech club is on the rebound.Microsoft, Apple, Amazon and Google parent Alphabet — all onetime members of the $1 trillion market cap club — are sharply higher on Tuesday. However, the four remain deep in the red for the month as the coronavirus crisis deepens.Craig Johnson, chief market technician at Piper Sandler, says a few key levels in each could offer an opportunity to jump into these stocks."This is where you want to pull out the playbook of, 'Where do we really, really want to own these stocks?' ... If you take a look first at a chart of Microsoft, if we see this stock pull back to say the $140 or $132 level area, you've got a lot of support down there from a long-term chart perspective. And if you're a long-term investor, this is where you want to buy it," Johnson said on CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Monday.A drop to the low end of that range at $132 would indicate an 8% decline from Microsoft's current levels. Shares have already declined 12% this month.Apple, another megacap stock hit hard by the sell-off, could be a buy if it has another downswing, says Johnson. He notes that the $225 level would present an opportunity to buy, a 10% drop from where it currently trades. It has not traded at those levels since September.Amazon and Alphabet also have potential if they see a bigger drop. He identifies the $1,700 level for Amazon and $1,000 for Alphabet as buy spots."This is where I think it's very critical before the washout takes place to pull that playbook out and say, 'Hey, these are the levels where we want to step up and buy these stocks' and writing some of the puts on these names in here, I think, is a great way to do it," said Johnson.

2019/12/30, Tim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple, Inc.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty Images2019 was a historic year for the S&P 500, and the benchmark has two stocks to thank.Apple and Microsoft, which surged 85% and 54% this year, respectively, together accounted for nearly 15% of the S&P 500's advance in 2019, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices. Their influence to the cap-weighted index this year is greater than the next eight biggest contributors combined. The S&P 500 rallied more than 28% this year, its best annual performance since 2013.The mega-tech duo's epic run this year also lifted them above the coveted $1 trillion level in market value, making them the only two U.S. companies in that elite market-cap club.Shares of Apple posted their best year since 2009 as investors shook off trade-induced worries and turned bullish on its services and wearable device businesses. With the launch of Apple TV, Apple Watch and Airpods, Apple managed to offset some of the loss from waning demand for iPhones. Enthusiasm for the upcoming 5G cycle has also lifted the stock.VIDEO3:2503:25Apple is the best play for investors in the next year: Gene MunsterSquawk AlleyApple's rally also defied analysts' wisdom. In fact, Apple has seen the biggest increase in analyst sell ratings this year among the 40 biggest companies, according to Bespoke Investment Group.It's no surprise that Microsoft emerged as the other powerhouse that did much of the heavy lifting this year. The tech giant enjoyed strong growth in its core personal computing business as well as Windows commercial products, cloud services and gaming. Earlier this year, Microsoft also snagged a hotly contested $10 billion defense contract, beating out Amazon.Bank of America named Microsoft one of its top software picks for 2020, saying the growth in its cloud computing segment could fuel a big run next year. The stock is also on track for its best annual performance since 2009.VIDEO4:2304:23These two tech titans could drive next leg of record rally, traders agreeTrading Nation— CNBC's Nate Rattner contributed to this report

2019/12/31, Attendees walk past the logo of US multinational technology company Microsoft during the Web Summit in Lisbon on November 6, 2019. Europe's largest tech event Web Summit is held at Parque das Nacoes in Lisbon from November 4 to November 7.PATRICIA DE MELO MOREIRA | AFP | Getty ImagesMicrosoft said on Monday it won a court order that allowed the tech giant to take control of 50 websites that a North Korea-linked hacking group was using to carry out cyberattacks.The group called "Thallium," believed to be operating from North Korea, was using a technique known as spear phishing to trick its victims, Microsoft said in a blog post.By gathering information about individuals through the public domain and social media, the hackers crafted personalized emails that looked credible. Those emails directed users to fraudulent websites where their account login details were compromised, which allowed the attackers to read emails, look at contact lists and access calendar appointments, according to Microsoft.Thallium was also using malicious software to compromise systems and steal sensitive data.The group's targets included government employees, think tanks, university staff and individuals working on nuclear proliferation issues. Most of them were based in the United States, Japan, and South Korea.Microsoft said Thallium was the fourth nation-state hacking group against which it filed legal actions to take down the infrastructure they use to carry out cyberattacks.

2020/01/31, Four technology giants now sit on top of the list of most valuable U.S. companies, each worth more than $1 trillion — and there's a familiar theme to each of their stories.Apple, Amazon, Microsoft and Google parent Alphabet have all looked to services and cloud businesses for growth in the past couple of years. In turn, the market has rewarded the companies richly, as each of the tech companies' market values have climbed to record levels.A year and a half ago Apple became the first U.S. company to surpass the $1 trillion mark, doing so in August 2018. Analysts at the time noted Apple's growing software and services revenue as catalysts driving the valuation.Five weeks later, Amazon reached $1 trillion for the first time. Although Jeff Bezos' e-commerce giant was only above that benchmark for a short time, analysts again pointed out how Amazon Web Services – its cloud business – was a key driver of the company's growth.Microsoft was the third to pass $1 trillion last April, its value driving higher after a better-than-expected earnings report. Its sales growth that quarter was, like the others, driven by growth in its public cloud service Azure, with big corporations handing off servers and data storage to Microsoft.Then Alphabet hit a $1 trillion, just two weeks ago. While its cloud growth has lagged behind Amazon and Microsoft, Alphabet doubled its cloud services revenue run rate to $2 billion per quarter from $1 billion per quarter between February 2018 and July 2019.Finally, while Amazon had fallen off the pace last year, the company on Friday once again joined the trillion-dollar club. After a knockout earnings report, Amazon's market value gained about $96 billion from Thursday's closing price – a one-day gain that is bigger than the entire market value of either UPS or 3M.These tech companies are dwarfing the rest of the stock market, too. The four make up 17% of the S&P 500's total market value, a level of dominance that Morgan Stanley says is unprecedented.

2019/08/12, DJ Koh, president and CEO of Samsung Electronics, shakes hands with Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, at a launch event for the Samsung Galaxy Note 10 smartphone in New York on August 7, 2019.Drew Angerer | Getty ImagesMicrosoft's Windows revenue growth has run its course, and under Satya Nadella, Microsoft has become less militant about supporting its own platform first.For more than five years now Microsoft's Office applications like Outlook and Excel have been available on Apple's iPad, as well as tablets running versions of Android. Today Outlook is ranked among the top 50 free apps on Apple and Google's mobile app stores.The strategy seems to be working: The stock has risen 275% since Nadella took the helm in 2014. On that day Nadella sent out a memo that talked about succeeding in a mobile- and cloud-first world -- and didn't mention Windows once.So now, Microsoft is extending that strategy far and wide.Last week, Microsoft cozied up to Samsung, one of the biggest names in the Android ecosystem. It announced that soon people with the Galaxy Note 10 smartphone will be able to use whole apps installed on the phone directly from Windows 10. Outlook will be pre-installed on each Note 10 phone, and Microsoft has made it possible for people to do more in Outlook with the phone's built-in stylus.Carolina Milanesi, principal analyst at Creative Strategies, viewed the tie-up positively."When it comes to Microsoft and Samsung working together, I think of their collaboration as highly complementary," Milanesi wrote in a blog post. "Microsoft gets key software and services in the pockets of what eventually will be millions of users as the collaboration expands from the Note to other devices. Samsung gets from the pockets onto the desks of millions of people broadening the value delivered by their phones."In gaming, Microsoft is seeing strong reception of Minecraft on Sony's PlayStation, which competes with Microsoft's own Xbox console franchise. The company behind Minecraft, Mojang, had already planned release a version of Minecraft for the PlayStation 4 before Microsoft announced plans to it in 2014. The key is Microsoft hasn't ignored the PlayStation 4 version -- following the acquisition, the company has issued more than 70 updates to it.On Friday Sony said that Minecraft was the top game on PlayStation 4 in terms of downloads in July. The companies are getting cozy in other ways, too: Despite competing with Microsoft in gaming for decades, earlier this year Sony said that it would evaluate Microsoft's Azure cloud infrastructure to deliver game services.Microsoft could also be lining itself up for a new technology win on Apple's iOS. Apple is betting big on augmented reality, where computer-generated images are superimposed on the real world (like Pokemon Go), with CEO Tim Cook telling CNBC in 2017 that it would make the iPhone "even more essential."Instead of focusing exclusively on its own augmented reality product, Hololens, Microsoft is readying Minecraft Earth, a game in which players can build blocky virtual worlds atop the real world around them, for iOS. An early version suggests that Microsoft still has issues to iron out before the full release, although that hasn't stopped people from sharing their creations on social networks.A search for #minecraftearth on Facebook's Instagram yields a video of a tiny house being rotated virtually on the surface of a night table, along with a photo of a fake sailboat standing tall on an actual beach, and snapshots of a handful of blocks exploding on the carpet of a person's office. "Help! My office is on fire!" wrote the person who posted the carpet scene, prompting 71 likes. A YouTube video entitled "I Built My FIRST HOUSE in Minecraft Earth!" has accumulated 1.4 million views in three weeks.WATCH: Here's why this analyst finds Microsoft's recovery fascinatingVIDEO5:4705:47Here's why this analyst finds Microsoft's recovery fascinatingSquawk BoxFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/10/21, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella speaks at an Economic Club of New York event in New York on Feb. 7, 2018.Mark Kauzlarich | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesFirst it was Movere. Now it's Mover.Under Satya Nadella's leadership, Microsoft is concentrating much of its dealmaking on bolstering the value of its cloud technology by helping companies move their data to its various services. On Monday, Microsoft announced the acquisition of Mover, whose software "will help make it easier than ever for customers to migrate files to Microsoft 365," Jeff Teper, corporate vice president for Office, SharePoint and OneDrive at Microsoft, wrote in a blog post.The purchase (terms weren't disclosed) comes about six weeks after Microsoft announced the acquisition of  Movere, and said at the time the technology would make migration to its Azure infrastructure "an easier process for our customers."Cloud-based Office services are already a major part of Microsoft's overall business, and the company continues to invest in them as it takes on rivals like Google. In 2017, Microsoft brought in more revenue from commercial customers of Office 365 portfolio than from traditional Office licenses for the first time.Azure, a competitor to Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud Platform, forms the backbone of applications like OneDrive, which people can use to sync and share a variety of files.Mover can help companies move data from Box, Dropbox, Egnyte and Google Drive into Microsoft's OneDrive and SharePoint, Teper wrote. The technology can also transfer files to the Microsoft cloud services from companies' on-premises data centers.Mover's customers include Autodesk, Symantec, Workiva and Xero, according to the company's website. The start-up was founded in 2012 and is based in Edmonton, Canada, with around 70 employees, according to LinkedIn. Investors include Double M Partners and Medra Capital.WATCH: Microsoft raises dividend by 11%, announces $40B buyback: Josh LiptonVIDEO1:4701:47Microsoft raises dividend by 11%, announces $40B buyback: Josh LiptonClosing BellFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/09/09, Former Microsoft CEO Bill Gates, center, presents a T-shirt as a retirement gift to Clippy, right, a person dressed as the Microsoft Office Assistant, as Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, left, looks on at the Office XP launch in New York on May 31, 2001, in New YorkStan Honda | AFP | Getty ImagesClippy, Microsoft's love-it-or-hate-it virtual assistant that debuted in the 1990s, has come back to life as a free application for Apple's MacOS.The resuscitation capitalizes on people's memories of bygone software from Microsoft, which last year recaptured the title of world's most valuable public company as it becomes more centered on subscriptions and cloud services.Devran "Cosmo" Ünal, senior product engineer at optics company Zeiss Group, released the software on the Microsoft-owned GitHub code-storage website last week, and it has drawn attention quickly."So much fun!" Steven Sinofsky, an Andreessen Horowitz investor and former Microsoft executive who was involved in Clippy's development, commented on a post about the software on Product Hunt, a forum for discussions on new digital creations.Clippy, which was originally designed on a Mac, came to be known more than two decades ago as a feature called Office Assistant, bundled into Microsoft's Office 97 for Windows and Office 98 for Mac.Back then, users could choose from a cast of characters to pop up and try to help in Microsoft's productivity programs like Word. Among the options were a diamond-shaped multicolored Office logo, a man resembling Albert Einstein named the Genius, and the smirking paper clip Clippit, which came to be known as Clippy. Microsoft even once came up with an Office Assistant for reviewers that took the form of an MS-DOS prompt, a Microsoft callback in itself, Sinofsky said in a video interview on Clippy's history earlier this year.Ünal said in an email that Clippy made him feel like he wasn't alone."Without him, I was basically staring at a blank document," he wrote. "He was part of my childhood and my hero when a paper was due for school." Some people found the Office assistants to be disruptive, though. The New York Times called Clippy "annoying to the point of distraction."In 2001 Microsoft announced that Clippy was being demoted in Office XP, the next version of its suite, which was built with simplicity in mind. "The wiry little assistant is turned off by default in Office XP, but diehard supporters can turn Clippy back on if they miss him," Microsoft said in a statement. The company even unveiled a website with a game where people could shoot Clippy with rubber bands.It does seem that some people have missed him. In 2013 Clippy was implemented as code that could be added onto websites. In 2017 a developer in Italy built an open-source Clippy extension for Microsoft's Visual Studio software-development tool. And earlier this year Clippy stickers for Microsoft's Teams chat app became available on GitHub from Microsoft's Office Developer account -- only to be yanked in just one day's time.Gaming console makers Nintendo, Sega and Sony have sought to cash in on nostalgia by bringing out smaller versions of their older products. Microsoft, at 44 years old, has plenty of options to reimagine. Last year it came out with a "classic" version of its iconic IntelliMouse that first arrived in 1996. With Clippy, though, the company has generally stuck with its decision to put Clippy in the past."Clippy is flattered by the attention, but has no plans to come out of retirement," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Monday.WATCH: Here's why this analyst finds Microsoft's recovery fascinatingVIDEO5:4705:47Here's why this analyst finds Microsoft's recovery fascinatingSquawk BoxFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/10/02, Microsoft unveiled the new Neo laptop.Microsoft on Wednesday showed off a brand-new type of device, a two-screened foldable laptop called the Surface Neo.The product will be ready next holiday season, Panos Panay, Microsoft's chief product officer, said at a company event in New York on Wednesday.Although Microsoft is arguably most well known for its software like Windows and Office, it's been making hardware since 1980. In the most recent fiscal year devices produced less than 5% of Microsoft's total revenue, at $6.1 billion, up about 19% from the same period one year earlier.Since 2012, Microsoft's Surface brand -- from the little Surface Go to the elaborate Surface Studio desktop -- has inspired new types of computers from the likes of Dell, HP and Lenovo. They haven't become universal hits, though, in the same way that Apple's iPhone has.The Surface Neo also has a touchscreen display above the keyboard.Both nine-inch screens of the Surface Neo measure 5.6 millimeters in terms of thickness, and altogether it weighs less than 1.5 pounds. The device features a 360-degree hinge, an Intel Lakefield chip and a USB-C port. It will support the use of a magnetic stylus and a magnetic keyboard that folds over part of one of the displays.Users can work with a single app across both screens at a 13-inch diameter -- or use a different app on each screen. Apps work in both vertical and horizontal orientation, and they automatically rotate on both screens when the device is rotated.When the specially designed wirelessly charging keyboard is placed on one of the screens, the content on that screen is relocated to the other screen, so that work can continue. With the keyboard in place, users can select from emojis, animated GIFs and word predictions that show up above the keyboard, on the part of the screen that's not hidden.Moving the keyboard upward on the bottom screen makes a virtual trackpad appear beneath it, just like on a laptop. The keyboard can also be removed and used with the Surface Neo separately.The system will run Windows 10X, a new operating system developed for double-screen devices,   Carmen Zlateff, partner group program manager at Microsoft, said at the event. Hundreds of engineers and designers have worked on it for the past couple of years, she said. Asus, Dell, HP and Lenovo will come out with their own devices running Windows 10X, Eran Megiddo, corporate vice president for Windows and education at Microsoft, wrote in a blog post.The interface on the Surface Neo highlights apps and recommended files in a simpler way than Windows 10 and provides a quick way to search the web and user content. The task bar has also been redesigned.Rumors about the Surface Neo, previously known by the codename Centaurus, had been circulating since December. In May, Microsoft reportedly showed employees a prototype of the product.Microsoft's interest in this type of device goes back further, though. In 2017 people started discussing a folding device with the codename Andromeda that was said to be smaller than Centaurus. "After struggling to find a serious use case, and the fact that their previous mobile hardware had absorbed $10 billion ... the device went into the vault, for now," Brad Sams wrote in his 2018 book "Beneath A Surface."Microsoft unveiled the Surface Neo on Wednesday.In the late 2000s, Microsoft engineers worked on a device with 7-inch dual screens that used the codename Courier, with a unique pen- and touch-oriented interface. The project was shelved in 2010. Its isolation from important products like Office and Windows was a factor in the decision, CNET reported.The Surface Neo has the same basic form factor of the Courier, but it contains "a very smart keyboard," Georg Petschnigg, chief innovation officer of WeTransfer and formerly co-founder of Pioneer Studios at Microsoft where he worked on Courier, told CNBC in a message on Wednesday.Courier did not have a keyboard that folds out, as Neo does."The workflows though are so core and key here — it's about enabling creativity and productivity on the go," Petschnigg wrote.VIDEO3:5203:52Microsoft unveils Surface Neo two-screened laptop, for 2020 releaseSquawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/09/19, Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, speaks during an interview on the David Rubenstein Show in New York on September 27, 2017.Christopher Goodney | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesMicrosoft told investors earlier this week that it will no longer provide numbers about Xbox Live use, with growth of the online gaming service slowing.In a presentation that came out on Tuesday, Microsoft said it will report revenue from Xbox content and services each quarter instead of a tally of Xbox Live monthly active users, which it had been disclosing in earnings since 2014.The change follows a strategic shift in Microsoft's gaming unit, which accounts for 9% of the company's revenue.  By acquiring assets like the Mixer video streaming service, Microsoft has established new forums for players to gather as well as new sources of revenue. The company has a cloud gaming service is coming in October."As the Microsoft Gaming business has expanded, the Xbox live MAU metric only captures a subset of opportunities across Microsoft's platform," a company spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Wednesday. "Further, we also expect greater volatility in the metric going forward as new content and services are introduced, like Minecraft Earth."Other big tech companies have made similar changes in how they publish various metrics of late. Oracle, for example, stopped disclosing revenue from its public cloud, and Apple no longer announces unit sales for the iPhone and other hardware products.Microsoft's Xbox Live service had 65 million monthly active users in the latest quarter, up 14% from a year earlier, marking the fastest growth since 2016. That year and the year prior, Xbox Live user growth exceeded 30%. Sony said in May that its PlayStation Network online service had more than 94 million monthly active users as of March.Microsoft released Xbox Live in 2002, allowing gamers to chat with one another and participate in discussion forums. For a fee, they can play together online. Prior to telling investors about user data beginning in 2014, Microsoft would occasionally report on its progress in gaming. In reporting Xbox content and services data, Microsoft will wrap in revenue from Xbox Live, video games and third-party game royalties, which it said in the investor presentation will show the "long-term health of the Gaming business across content, community and cloud." The company will continue to report total gaming revenue, which includes sales of Xbox consoles, in regulatory filings.WATCH: Xbox head Phil Spencer on the next-generation consoleFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/10/01, Wunderlist founder Christian Reber hopes to take on Microsoft PowerPoint with his presentation app, Pitch.Christian Reber knows all about the gaps in Microsoft's productivity apps.In 2015, Microsoft bought his to-do list app, Wunderlist, for a price reportedly north of $100 million as part of a renewed push into mobile productivity apps. Microsoft drew inspiration from Reber's work to build its own mobile To Do app, and gradually sidelined Wunderlist — to the point where Reber recently offered to buy it back to save it.Now he's enlisted investors to help him take on one of Microsoft's more prominent products: PowerPoint.Microsoft's program for building and making presentations has been a fixture of the Office bundle for three decades. Office products and cloud services give Microsoft a quarter of its revenue. People have long sought to dethrone PowerPoint, but it's hard taking on a product that's so ubiquitous.Reber is trying anyway. He's founded a new start-up called Pitch along with Jan Martin, Charlette Prévot, Eric Labod, Adam Renklint and others who worked with him on Wunderlist."Me and my co-founders talked about it, and immediately felt that we knew exactly what kind of product we would have to build to be able to compete with the giants in this space," he wrote in an email to CNBC this week. "Like with Wunderlist, Pitch is a product that we wanted to have for ourselves, so we didn't think about it too much and started working on it instead."At Microsoft, Reber learned about how widely installed the PowerPoint software is — and how few presentations are made with the tool. Then he started thinking about the problems facing PowerPoint."Broken fonts, compatibility issues, lack of versioning, no collaboration support... The list was long," Reber wrote. "And the biggest thing I've noticed is that people really struggled with designing good slides. They spend an enormous amount with moving boxes around a slide, rather than focusing on the content and the story. Microsoft is struggling with a lot of legacy -- PowerPoint is now 32 years old, so it's a quite a beast to maintain."Pitch includes version history so users can look through past changes and revert to previous versions. It will organize content on slides intelligently and let users work within the constraints of their employers' brand guidelines. The service, which is accessible online, integrates with external services like Slack and Microsoft Excel. And it will be possible to take a slide presentation made in a different service and work on it in Pitch.People at Intercom, Superhuman, Zoom and other companies are using Pitch, Reber wrote. Over the next few months Pitch will start providing beta access to the service for people who signed up for access on the start-up's website. The service will launch for everyone in 2020.The company kicked off in early 2018 and is based in Berlin. Its $30 million in new funding comes from Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger -- co-founders of Instagram, who sold their app to Facebook for $1 billion when their company had about a dozen employees -- Superhuman CEO Rahul Vohra and Thrive Capital, among other investors. Overall, Pitch has raised $50 million.It's not as if Reber's company is alone in challenging PowerPoint. Google Slides is available to Google account holders and paying G Suite business customers, and Apple offers Keynote. Last year Salesforce's Quip division introduced a presentation app. There are also smaller companies with presentation software, including Beautiful.ai, Prezi and Zoho.Nonetheless, Reber built the product he wanted to use, and he believes others will follow."We've built an experience that enables teams to create, view and share great presentations faster and easier than ever before," Reber wrote. "And we made it fun."WATCH: Watch CNBC's full interview with Microsoft president Brad SmithVIDEO20:0120:01Watch CNBC's full interview with Microsoft president Brad SmithSquawk BoxFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/07/23, Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks during an Apple launch event in the Brooklyn borough of New York, U.S., October 30, 2018. Shannon Stapleton | Reuters(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:Guggenheim downgraded Kraft Heinz to sell from neutralGuggenheim said in its downgrade of the stock that it was concerned that Kraft Heinz is continuing to lose share even as other food companies thrive during the coronavirus pandemic. "As the pandemic worsens in the United States and across many emerging markets, we think that food companies will generally benefit for longer than previously expected. While KHC is also benefiting from elevated retail sales, the company portfolio continues to lose share in most segments, reinforcing our cautious fundamental thesis. We are downgrading KHC to SELL, as the current valuation doesn't reflect the risks we continue to see in the name. We are increasing our estimates for MDLZ, K, and KHC with increased sales growth in FY20."Bank of America upgraded Bloomin' Brands to neutral from underperformBank of America upgraded the stock ahead of the company's earnings report on Friday and said it expects "multi-year outsized growth" from the casual restaurant hospitality operator."In an early June update, BLMN noted recent U.S. comps were down 25% at Outback, 21% at Carrabba's, 41% at Bonefish, and 45% at Fleming's. Industry same store sales improved over the next few weeks since that update but have reversed modestly in July as Covid cases have picked up (and California shut dining rooms). BLMN is benefitting from 1) better off-premise performance than we expected, 2) advantages of scale, and 3) a shake-out of competitors amid a challenging environment."

2020/01/27, Doug CamplejohnSource: LinkedIn | YouTubeThe new head of Salesforce's flagship software for tracking business opportunities comes from LinkedIn, which Salesforce tried and failed to acquire in 2016, losing out to Microsoft.Doug Camplejohn, who had been a vice president of product management working on a tool that helps salespeople find prospects on LinkedIn, is now an executive vice president and general manager for Sales Cloud.The move shows Salesforce tapping a person who has enjoyed a privileged view of social media-powered selling to lead Sales Cloud, the company's biggest product and the leader of the customer relationship management market.Camplejohn arrived at LinkedIn in 2015, when it bought Fliptop, a predictive sales and marketing start-up where he was co-founder and CEO. At LinkedIn he worked on Sales Navigator, a tool unlike any other. It evaluates hundreds of millions of people listed on the business social network and identifies key people at companies who can help salespeople land deals. Sales Navigator can also automatically update services that manage sales outreach efforts, such as Sales Cloud.Microsoft recognized the value of this approach, which is known as social selling. In 2016 Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella approached LinkedIn CEO Jeff Weiner after LinkedIn's stock fell on guidance that missed analysts' expectations, and the two discussed a possible business combination. Salesforce also saw an opportunity, and co-founder and CEO Marc Benioff reached out to Weiner just as Nadella had done. LinkedIn evaluated its proposals and ultimately went with Microsoft.Since the $27 billion acquisition closed, LinkedIn has made it possible for companies to use Sales Navigator with Microsoft products, including Dynamics 365 for Sales, which competes with Sales Cloud.Salesforce's Sales Cloud software goes back to the company's earliest days. It generated $1.17 billion in revenue in the quarter that ended Oct. 31, up about 15% year over year, representing about 26% of Salesforce's total revenue. Salesforce has also been expanding other parts of its business — including the Service Cloud business, which crossed $1 billion in quarterly revenue in 2019 — and picking up new capabilities through acquisitions like data analytics company Tableau.Camplejohn takes over from Adam Blitzer, who had been interim general manager of Sales Cloud at Salesforce since September. Camplejohn, who in 2009 sold start-up Mi5 Networks to Symantec for $18 million, didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.Lindsey Edwards, a senior director of product management at LinkedIn, has taken over as head of product for the Sales Solutions group that includes Sales Navigator following Camplejohn's departure, a LinkedIn spokesperson told CNBC in an email on Wednesday.WATCH: CNBC's full interview with Salesforce co-CEO Marc BenioffVIDEO11:3111:31Watch CNBC's full interview with Salesforce co-CEO Marc BenioffSquawk AlleyFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2020/07/22, In this articleCMGWHRNIOTSLALVSMSFTPedestrians wearing protective masks walk past a Microsoft Technology Center in New York, on Wednesday, July 22, 2020.Jeenah Moon | Bloomberg via Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines after the bell: Microsoft — Shares of Microsoft dropped 2% in after hours after the company's fourth-quarter earnings beat estimates. The technology company reported earnings of $1.46 per share on revenues of $38.03 billion. Analysts had expected earnings per share of $1.34 on revenues of $36.5 billion, according to Refinitiv. Revenue grew 13% even amid the coronavirus crisis. Earlier today, Slack accused the technology company of anticompetitive practices in an EU complaint.Las Vegas Sands — The resort developer's stock fell 1% in extended trading after the company released financial results from the second quarter. The company missed estimates, reporting a loss of $1.05 per share excluding some items on revenues of $98 million. Refinitiv analysts had expected a loss per share of 74 cents on revenues of $564 million. The company said it will continue capital expenditure programs in both Macao and Singapore.Tesla — The automaker's stock climbed 5% after the market closed. Tesla released second-quarter earnings of $2.18 per share excluding some items on revenues of $6.04 billion while Refinitiv analysts had expected earnings per share of 3 cents on revenues of $5.37 billion. Tesla also reported its first full year of profitability based on GAAP, so the company can now be considered to join the S&P 500 index. Shares of electric vehicle maker NIO also jumped 3% in extended trading.Whirlpool — Shares of Whirlpool rose 3% after the closing bell. The company beat Refinitiv analysts' estimates, posting second-quarter earnings of $2.15 per share excluding some items on revenues of $4.04 billion compared to estimates of earnings per share of $1 on revenues of $3.57 billion.Chipotle Mexican Grill — Shares of Chipotle fell 1% in extended trading after the company posted second-quarter earnings. Beating Refinitiv analysts' expectations, Chipotle reported second-quarter earnings of 40 cents per share excluding some items on revenues of $1.36 billion. Analysts had expected earnings per share of 35 cents on revenues of $1.34 billion. The company's reported quarterly adjusted earnings were down 90% from the period a year ago as coronavirus closed restaurant dining rooms. Meanwhile, Chipotle's digital sales more than tripled during the second quarter.VIDEO1:1701:17Gary V wants you to follow this one piece of advice while investingInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.

2020/01/24, Tim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., speaks during the Apple Inc. Spring Forward event in San Francisco, California.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple and Microsoft will each be sending a representative to a meeting on Monday hosted by a group that's supporting efforts by the Department of Health and Human Services to make it easier for patients to access and share their medical information.The nonpartisan Carin Alliance, which describes its focus as "advancing consumer-directed exchange in health care," posted the attendee list and talking points on its website on Friday. More than 40 people representing some of the biggest companies in the industry are planning to attend, either in person or by phone, according to the list.They'll be meeting as part of an effort to push through a rule change proposed by HHS in 2019 to promote medical data interoperability. The proposal has been in a public comment period, with backers hoping it will be finalized in the coming weeks.The inclusion of Apple and Microsoft is notable because the largest technology companies have largely stayed silent on the topic of late, although several shared their perspectives during the comment period. Apple's Ricky Bloomfield, who's working on efforts to add health information to the iPhone, is expected to join by phone, as is Microsoft's Joshua Mandel, a chief architect at the company.Proponents of the change are trying to modernize patient access to their data, because it's still common for health systems to only make it available via a CD-ROM or fax. Some patients are denied access altogether. That system is proving harmful to health outcomes and makes it harder for consumers to freely move between different doctors and health systems or to share their information with apps they use.Google is a supporter of the Carin Alliance, but is not listed on the website. The company didn't respond to a request for comment on whether it will attend, but a spokesperson sent a statement supporting the government's effort to "prevent information blocking and facilitate secure data access to patients."Apple declined to comment on the meeting and Microsoft said in an email that it is "actively engaged with Carin  to provide technical advice and guidance on data architectures and standards."Judith Faulkner, CEO of healthcare IT giant Epic Systems.Source: Epic SystemsThe most prominent opposition thus far has come from Epic Systems, one of the largest U.S. medical records companies. CEO Judy Faulkner sent a letter earlier this week to large hospitals, which are also the company's customers, urging them to take a stand against the rule, in part because of concerns around patient privacy.The Carin Alliance shared its talking points for the meeting with the Office of Management and Budget, which administers the federal budget, urging for a resolution without "further delay.""These rules play an important role in empowering an individual with access to their own health data," the document says. The group acknowledges that opinions may "slightly differ" but the members are united when it comes to promoting consumer access to medical information.Other attendees on the list include representatives from Cerner, which competes with Epic, Walgreens, Humana, Blue Shield of California and a number of start-up groups, patient advocates and caregiver advocates."We fully support and believe that patients and consumers need to be able to access third-party apps of their choice based on their privacy preferences," said Ryan Howells, a principal at health-care intelligence company Leavitt Partners and a member of the Carin Alliance management team, in an interview.WATCH: How health care is set to go digitalVIDEO2:2802:28How health care is set to go digitalEast Tech WestFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/11/21, Microsoft Surface EarbudsTodd Haselton | CNBCMicrosoft chief product officer Panos Panay said on Twitter that the company's AirPods competitor, called Surface Earbuds, are delayed until the spring. The $249 headphones were initially announced in October as part of Microsoft's holiday lineup, though the company had never provided a precise date for launch.That means they'll miss the holiday season where they had a chance to compete against Amazon's Echo Buds, Apple AirPods and Apple's new AirPods Pro.Panay tweet.I had a chance to try the Surface Earbuds in October, and they weren't very good. For $250, they lack features other competitors offer in that price range, including noise-cancellation, which is included in Apple's $249 AirPods Pro. Amazon's Echo Buds also offer noise reduction.Microsoft's Surface Earbuds weren't very comfortable, felt cheap and didn't always register when I tried tapping for controls. Most earbuds look weird, but these look particularly strange, like a set of the old toy pogs were placed in my ears.Panay didn't add any additional comment to his tweet, but I hope Microsoft considers adding some missing features or redesigning them entirely.VIDEO5:0205:02First look at Microsoft's new folding phone the Surface DuoTechFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech product news.

2019/12/18, VIDEO3:3603:36Two top Dow stocks might be setting up for a fall, traders warnTrading NationMicrosoft is on a rocketship this year.The stock is the second best Dow performer in 2019, up 52%. It is also likely to close out its eighth positive year in a row, a record stretch.Matt Maley, chief market strategist at Miller Tabak, sees signs its massive run may be done."This is purely a technical call. It's a great company with a great fundamental outlook. But if you look at the long-term chart, its weekly RSI chart [see relative strength index chart below] is becoming quite overbought," Maley said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."He noted that the stock could rally a little more into the end of the year, but this overbought condition leads him to believe any rally might not have legs. Microsoft's relative strength index, a measure of momentum, has reached 75 on a weekly basis. A reading of 70 and above typically suggests a stock has become overbought.Another chart signal is giving him pause."It's now trading at a 72% premium to its 200-week moving average. There's only been one other time since the great tech bubble of the late 1990s when it's been this high. It reached 75% back in late September of last year, but of course the stock rolled over and sold off 18% over the next three months," said Maley.This isn't looking like the dot-com bust just yet, he said. Microsoft topped out at a 150% premium to its 200-week moving average at the beginning of 2000."I certainly wouldn't short it especially before the end of the year, but it's one you might be able to pull back and get a cheaper price at some point," Maley said.Another top Dow stock could be hitting the pause button, according to Boris Schlossberg, managing director of FX strategy at BK Asset Management."Apple doesn't look like a great risk-reward, not because I think it's in danger of falling, but I think it's in danger of stalling," Schlossberg said during the same segment. "It's been a real juggernaut this year, but I think a lot of the good news is kind of baked in."Apple is the best Dow stock in 2019, surging 78% — its best year in a decade."The one outlier bullish case here is if 5G in China really takes off. If their 5G product in China really creates a huge amount of demand, then I think there's still upside to the stock but given other factors, I think it's actually kind of peaked out at this point. It's had a very, very big stretch on valuation," said Schlossberg.Apple trades at 21 times forward earnings. By comparison, the S&P 500 trades with an 18 times forward multiple.Disclaimer

2020/03/02, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks at an event at Facebook's Headquarters office in Menlo Park, California on January 15, 2012.Josh Edelson | AFP | Getty ImagesFacebook, Google, Microsoft and Adobe on Monday announced their decisions to cancel, alter or pull out of various upcoming conferences due to the spreading of the coronavirus. Google announced that its Google Cloud Next 2020 event that was scheduled for April 6 through April 8 in San Francisco will now only be held virtually "out of an abundance of caution for the health and safety." Facebook, meanwhile, said it had decided not to participate in SXSW, the conference and festival event that is held in Austin, Texas, every March. And Adobe said it had made the decision to cancel the live portion of its annual Adobe Summit that was scheduled to take place in Las Vegas from March 29 through April 2."Over the past few weeks, we have been closely monitoring and evaluating the situation around COVID-19 to ensure we are taking the necessary measures to protect the health and wellbeing of Adobe Summit attendees," Adobe said in a statement. "As a result, we have made the difficult but important decision to make Adobe Summit 2020 an online event this year and to cancel the live event in Las Vegas."Microsoft had been planning to hold its MVP Global Summit on March 15 to March 20 in the Washington state cities of Bellevue and Redmond, but the company will now run the event digitally given concerns, a spokesperson told CNBC in an email. Thousands of people attend the annual event for Microsoft-designated non-employees known as most valuable professionals who spread the word about Microsoft products and regional directors who participate in events  and give Microsoft feedback.The companies' decisions are the latest in a series of cancelations to major annual events held by the tech industry each year. Facebook said on Thursday that it canceled its annual F8 software developer conference, and Workday told employees last week that its annual internal sales meeting scheduled for early March will be held online instead of in San Jose, California. Also on Friday, the Game Developers Conference, a major annual event for video game programmers and designers scheduled for March in San Francisco, was postponed.--CNBC's Jordan Novet and Jennifer Elias contributed to this report.VIDEO0:5600:56Facebook cancels F8 Developers Conference due to coronavirus concernsThe Exchange

2020/01/17, Talk of console wars has dominated video games for years.There are gamers who swear by the benefits of playing in front of a keyboard and mouse on a custom-built PC, while others prefer the convenience and ubiquity of consoles like the Xbox and Playstation.Those console brands, in particular, have become powerhouses in the world of at-home gaming.Microsoft sold 30 million units of the Xbox One console between its release in November 2013 and the end of 2017, according to IHS Markit. Sony sold 73 million PlayStation 4 consoles that same time period.But there's a new player in the game: streaming video game platforms. You could play from anywhere, on any device, any time. And you don't need to worry about your hardware becoming obsolete.Google's Stadia, Microsoft's Project xCloud, and Nvidia's GeForce Now make it easy to play top-tier games without a console or PC. The subscription-based services stream video games from high-end gaming machines through the cloud.But these services also have some major challenges to overcome before they can fully take on consoles.Watch the video to learn more about how streaming services are trying to take on the likes of Microsoft and Sony.

2019/09/17, VIDEO2:1102:11Apple, Microsoft could roar and lead the market, says Jim CramerMad Money with Jim CramerThe largest companies on Wall Street could be in position to lead the stock market to new heights, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Tuesday.Citing technical analysis from stock analyst Dan Fitzpatrick, the "Mad Money" host said Microsoft and Apple can provide some much-needed long-term influence on the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average.The two indexes are both less than 1% off their all-time closing high set in July, according to FactSet."The charts, as interpreted by Dan Fitzpatrick, suggest that Apple and Microsoft could both be ready to roar, potentially giving this market the leadership that it deserves," Cramer said."If these two tech titans can break out to the upside here, Fitzpatrick thinks they'll pull the whole Dow higher," Cramer added, "and after looking at the charts, he likes the odds of a breakout."Looking at the daily chart of Microsoft, the stock has traded in a tight range between the low $130s and low $140s the past three months. The 50-day moving average, which is used to forecast stock trends, "has been drifting sideways" while a momentum indicator called the Moving Average Convergence Divergence is showing "no trend whatsoever," Cramer said.Shares of Microsoft also traded on lower-than-average volume last month, which Fitzpatrick thinks is a good sign, Cramer said, and another volatility gauge is showing that a big move could be ahead.Fitzpatrick is the founder of Stock Market Mentor and is a colleague of Cramer's at RealMoney.com."When a stock is in consolidation, low volume means that big institutions aren't really selling the stock in any sort of quantity, they're just doing a bit of profit-taking," the host said. "Microsoft's got a ceiling of resistance at $140, up roughly three bucks from where it's trading today. If it can burst through that ceiling, Fitzpatrick thinks it could have a lot more upside."Turning to Apple's daily chart, Cramer pointed out a similar trading trend with an increasing floor of support. This stock, however, has climbed above its ceiling of resistance of $217 and has made higher highs and higher lows, a key pattern that technicians look for, he said.Apple's stock is also trading up on higher-than-average volume, which is a bullish sign, he added."Fitzpatrick recommends sticking with this one as long as the stock remains above its 50-day moving average, currently down about 6% from here," Cramer said. "As for me, you know my view: Own Apple, don't trade it."Apple and Microsoft are two of three companies to have surpassed the $1 trillion mark in market capitalization. As of Tuesday's close, Apple is worth more than $997 billion and Microsoft is valued more than $1.04 trillion, according to FactSet.WATCH: Cramer takes a look at the chart action in Apple and MicrosoftVIDEO4:3804:38Jim Cramer: Microsoft, Apple may be primed to lead the market to new heightsMad Money with Jim CramerDisclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Apple and Microsoft.Questions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2019/11/14, Jeff Bezos speaking at the new New York Economic Club luncheon in New York on Oct. 27, 2016.Adam Jeffery | CNBC Amazon said Thursday it has filed a notice in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims indicating a plan to protest the Pentagon's decision to give Microsoft a multibillion dollar contract for cloud computing services.The Pentagon said Oct. 25 that Microsoft had won the contract, which could span 10 years and be worth up to $10 billion. It was originally due to be awarded last year. The Wall Street Journal reported on Amazon's protest plans earlier on Thursday. Amazon and its founder and CEO, Jeff Bezos, is a frequent target of President Donald Trump.The contract amounts to a major win for Microsoft under CEO Satya Nadella, who has made cloud services a higher priority. For Amazon it would be smaller; its Amazon Web Services division had $9 billion in revenue in the most recent quarter."Numerous aspects of the JEDI evaluation process contained clear deficiencies, errors, and unmistakable bias — and it's important that these matters be examined and rectified," Amazon told CNBC in an email.A Pentagon official said it would not speculate on potential litigation. Microsoft didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.The Pentagon announced in August that Esper would review the deal after Trump said he had received complaints from companies about the process. Trump said in July that companies conveyed that the specifications of the contract favored Amazon, according to Bloomberg.Read more: Trump says he's looking into a Pentagon cloud contract"I never had something where more people are complaining," Trump said last month at the White House. "Some of the greatest companies in the world are complaining about it," he added, naming Microsoft, Oracle and IBM.Trump often criticizes Amazon and Bezos, who also owns The Washington Post. The president, without citing evidence, has accused the Post of making up stories about him.The lucrative contract, originally scheduled to be awarded in September 2018, was postponed until Defense Secretary Mark Esper completed a series of thorough reviews of the technology."We've got to get this right, so we are not going to rush to a decision. We are going to spend whatever time the evaluation team needs to spend to make sure we are picking the best technical solution at the right price with the right criteria," Dana Deasy, the Pentagon's chief information officer, told reporters in a closed-door media roundtable at the Pentagon."We don't have an enterprise approach," Deasy added. "We have a bunch of siloed solutions we built. We have lots of vendors we're using for cloud solutions, but we've never stepped back and created a holistic solution, and that is causing challenges out in the field."Microsoft does not specify how much revenue it derives from Azure, but its growth rate of 59% in the third quarter was above AWS' 35% growth rate.-- CNBC's Ylan Mui contributed to this report.WATCH: President Trump: We will look closely at Amazon contract with PentagonVIDEO3:0503:05President Trump: We will look closely at Amazon contract with PentagonThe ExchangeFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/12/13, VIDEO1:4101:41Microsoft's Xbox Series X could be fastest, most powerful Xbox yetMicrosoft pulled the wraps off its new console, the Xbox Series X, charging ahead of Sony in debuting next-generation gaming hardware.The Xbox Series X was revealed at the company's press conference for industry awards ceremony The Game Awards in Los Angeles, and sets off an inevitable battle with its Japanese rival as 2020 approaches.The gadget comes with a peculiar monolithic design, almost resembling a PC tower, while its new wireless controller looks like something Xbox fans will be more familiar with. One new thing Microsoft's next-gen Xbox controller contains is a share button that lets users capture screenshots and game footage, something the PlayStation 4 controller already features.TweetMicrosoft Head of Xbox Phil Spencer said in a blog post that this would be the firm's "fastest, most powerful console ever," capable of showing images at up to a huge 120 frames per second and coming with 8K video capability. The device will also feature improved graphics and a solid-state drive which Spencer claimed will "virtually eliminate load times."In terms of actual games, Microsoft showed off the trailer for a new title called "Hellblade 2," a sequel to the original fantasy action-adventure game developed by U.K. game developer Ninja Theory. Sony also dropped a game trailer for a new game from American publisher Gearbox called "Godfall," which will be available with its own next-gen console. The firm didn't however offer any new hints about the PlayStation 5.Microsoft hasn't disclosed a price for the new device, an important detail gamers will no doubt be looking for as they come to decide which new model to get their hands on. The company said the Xbox Series X will be available to buy in the holidays next year.

2019/10/02, Microsoft had its annual product event on Wednesday.Microsoft made a surprise announcement Wednesday of a new two-screened Android smartphone, the Surface Duo. The device will launch in late 2020, in time for the holiday season. No pricing details were announced.The device features two side-by-side 5.6-inch displays that are connected by a 360-degree hinge. Once it's folded up, the Duo is small enough that it can fit in your pocket.Panos Panay, Microsoft's chief product officer, holds up the new Surface Duo.Microsoft said it partnered with Google to "bring the best of Android" to the device, while incorporating elements of Windows 10X, a new operating system meant for hybrid devices. It can also run two different apps at the same time.The phone opens up so that the second display can be used as a game controller or a keyboard. The second display can also function as a stand, enabling users to watch videos in landscape mode."You can text, you can write, you can do what you want," said Panos Panay, Microsoft's chief product officer. "Make no mistake, this product is a Surface."The Duo folds open so that the second screen can be used as a game controller.Microsoft was rumored to be developing a Surface phone for some time. The company's last stab at a smartphone, the Windows Phone operating system, didn't sell as well as Microsoft had hoped, and it has since been discontinued. This time around, Microsoft isn't relying on its own mobile operating system; instead, it has chosen to bring Android, the most popular operating system globally, to the Duo.The company unveiled Duo alongside other Surface announcements. The company debuted an all-new dual-screen computer, called the Surface Neo, as well as the Surface Pro 7, the Surface Laptop 3, the Surface Pro X and the Surface Earbuds.VIDEO5:0205:02First look at Microsoft's new folding phone the Surface DuoTech

2019/10/21, Javier Soltero at a Flurry event in 2014.Source: Michael O'DonnellGoogle has hired ex-Microsoft executive Javier Soltero to run its G Suite business, which includes Gmail, Google Docs, Google Drive and other productivity apps. Soltero most recently served as corporate vice president for Cortana, Microsoft's digital assistant, and left the company late last year. He previously held various roles, including overseeing Microsoft Outlook.As vice president of G Suite, a new role for the company, Soltero will report to Google Cloud CEO Thomas Kurian, the company said in an email on Monday. Previously, Prabhakar Raghavan led Google Apps, before shifting to lead the company's advertising and commerce products.Kurian, who joined Google in January after over two decades at Oracle, has been on a hiring spree in attempts to make the company more competitive with Amazon and Microsoft. Last week, Google hired SAP executive Brigette McInnis-Day to lead the cloud unit's human resources department.Soltero joined Microsoft in 2014 as part of the software maker's acquisition of Acompli, which he co-founded and led. Prior to that, he held various leadership roles at VMware.In July, Google CEO Sundar Pichai said the company plans to triple the sales force in cloud, and called it a key growth driver for parent company Alphabet.WATCH: Google Cloud CEO says company is growing faster in Europe than elsewhereVIDEO1:2701:27Growing faster in Europe than any other part of the world, Google Cloud CEO saysStreet Signs EuropeFollow @CNBCtech on Twitter for the latest tech industry news.

2019/11/08, MUNICH, GERMANY - SEPTEMBER 29: Tim Cook, CEO Apple, during the Oktoberfest 2019 at Kaeferschaenke beer tent.Gisela Schober | German Select | Getty ImagesThe broad stock market rally that's lifted U.S. indexes to record highs has been very good to Big Tech.Microsoft, Apple and Google parent Alphabet all closed at all-time highs on Friday, as investors continue to brush aside fears of a trade war and economic slowdown, focusing instead on the companies' financials and dominance in their respective markets.All three tech giants reported better-than-expected revenue in their latest earnings report last month, and Microsoft and Apple also beat estimates on profit. On Friday, Microsoft gained 1.2%, Apple inched up 0.3%, and Alphabet rose 0.2%.Apple has climbed in seven of the past eight trading days and reached a market cap of $1.16 trillion, making the iPhone manufacturer the world's most valuable publicly-traded company, just ahead of Microsoft at $1.11 trillion. Apple's stock is up 65% in 2019 and Microsoft has gained 44%, both trouncing the S&P 500, which has climbed 23%.Alphabet has performed only slightly better than S&P 500 for the year, gaining 25% in 2019. But the company had the best week among the Big Tech crew, with the stock rising 2.9%. It's notched gains in five of the past six trading days, making the company's close on Thursday its highest since April.The three companies combined now account for about 12% of the value of the S&P 500.The stock market has been riding a wave of optimism regarding trade negotiations with China that's propelled the Nasdaq Composite to six straight weekly gains and the S&P 500 to five consecutive positive weeks. The other two mega-cap tech companies are still off their record highs reached last year. Amazon has dropped 12% from its highest close in September 2018, and Facebook is 12% off its record close from two months prior.WATCH: How Apple CEO Tim Cook won over Trump amid a trade warVIDEO14:3514:35How Apple CEO Tim Cook won over Trump amid a trade warTech

2019/07/12, VIDEO3:4803:48Microsoft initiated outperform at CowenHalftime ReportMicrosoft, the US' most valuable public company, is already up 36% this year and hovering around its all-time high. But Cowen sees even more upside.The firm initiated coverage of Microsoft on Thursday with an outperform rating and $150 price target. Predicting that the company can deliver an incremental $100 billion of revenue by fiscal year 2025, Cowen believes Commercial Cloud, which includes Azure and Office 365 Commercial, will become the primary driver of growth.Traders agree with Cowen's positive sentiment on Microsoft, which hit a new all-time intraday high of $139.22 on Thursday.While Cowen's note focuses on Microsoft's growing cloud capabilities, Pete Najarian, cofounder of Investitute.com, has other reasons to be bullish. "Cloud growth is part of it, and the subscription model as well," he said on Thursday's "Halftime Report." "By the way, we all want to say Windows is dead. Windows is not dead. That continues to grow as well.""It's all about LinkedIn for my mind and for my money from here, rather than just focusing completely on the cloud," added Jon Najarian, cofounder of Najarian Family Office. LinkedIn, which Microsoft purchased for $27 billion in 2016, has more than 610 million users and is responsible for more than 5% of the company's revenue.CEO Satya Nadella, who took over in 2014, deserves a lot of the credit for Microsoft's success in recent years. Pete Najarian echoed widespread sentiment when he said that from the beginning, Nadella "had an absolute plan in place. That plan was to transition the company to where it is now" — a competitor in cloud and software whose market capitalization is over $1 trillion.Microsoft shares hit another record as Cowen analysts predict it will hit 25% cloud market shareThe traders do have some concerns, though.Pete Najarian thinks the stock is "getting a little loftier in terms of the P/E." Microsoft's forward P/E is 30 times earnings right now, and a high P/E can signal that the stock is getting ahead of itself. Najarian still owns its stock and call options, but is keeping an eye on the rising valuation.In particular, despite Cowen's bullish outlook on Microsoft's potential in the cloud infrastructure space, Najarian says you can't forget about Amazon, which remains the clear leader. Last quarter, Microsoft's share of the market jumped to 13% from 10%, but Amazon remained at 33%. Najarian cautioned, "Microsoft is a deep distant second. But if they can claw some of that market share back, then absolutely, I think this stock can go higher."Stephen Weiss of Short Hills Capital Partners has a shorter term concern: Microsoft reports fiscal fourth quarter earnings next Thursday. "The company's going to continue to do well, but they've got to perform. If they don't perform, there's no safety net here," he warned. The street is expecting Microsoft to be one of the few names that does well in an earnings season generally projected to be weak — according to estimates from FactSet, analysts are projecting that the company will report EPS of $1.21 and $32.75 billion in revenue.Bottom line? As Joe Terranova of Virtus Investment Partners said, "That stock is something you have to own."VIDEO1:2301:23Final trades: ONEOK, Enterprise Products, Micron & BiotechHalftime ReportDisclosure: Jon Najarian, Pete Najarian, Joe Terranova and Stephen Weiss own shares of Microsoft. Jon and Pete Najarian also own calls in Microsoft.