2021/05/07, Apple and Epic Games have been facing off in one of the most closely watched antitrust trials in the technology industry in years.Epic Games presented its case this week, and Apple will present its case in the coming weeks. Eventually, Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers will make a decision whether Apple must allow Epic to install its own app store on iPhones and bypass Apple's 30% App Store fee.As part of Epic's argument that Apple's App Store is anti-competitive, the trial has revealed a lot of internal Apple deliberations on negotiations — court exhibits including email threads fill 60 binders worth of documents — with some of its most important partners.VIDEO5:1205:12What the Apple-Epic Games trial could mean for pending lawsuitsTechCheckThe documents paint a portrait of a company very aware of its highest-grossing and most important apps, that regularly engages in negotiations with companies including Netflix, Microsoft, Facebook and even Epic Games itself, whose Fortnite game was one of the top apps on Apple's App Store.While the emails don't show the App Store team compromising on Apple's rules about what's allowed on the store, they did offer other concessions, including front-page placement on the App Store, coordination and publicity through Apple product launches, access to exclusive programming features, and attempts to loop in senior executives to find compromises.Apple offered compromises to NetflixIn February 2018, an Apple manager met with employees at Netflix and subsequently wrote an email to his colleagues summarizing the meeting.He wrote that the video streamer was concerned about "voluntary churn," or the number of Netflix subscribers paying through Apple who decided to stop subscribing. Consequently, he said, Netflix wanted to run a test in a few small markets to see what would happen if it stopped accepting in-app purchases, of which Apple takes a 15% to 30% cut.The Apple manager wrote that Netflix's planned test raised questions for Apple, including whether to take "punitive measures," such as ceasing to promote Netflix on the App Store or escalating concerns to Netflix executives.The email kicked off a scramble among Apple managers. At the time, Netflix was among the top-grossing apps on Apple's App store.Pete Distad, an Apple VP focused on Apple's streaming business, dispatched employees to talk to his former employer, Hulu, on similar topics. One Apple employee said that Eddy Cue, Apple's online services chief, wanted to speak with Netflix CEO Reed Hastings.Over the next two months, Apple employees met with Netflix to talk about the test and updated their bosses about Netflix's plans as Apple tried to schedule an executive meeting, according to the emails.By July 2018 Apple employees had created a presentation about the Netflix issue. The slide deck included "pie in the sky ideas" which had not been approved, an Apple employee warned.The slide deck said that Apple had already offered Netflix "custom APIs," or non-public software to allow it to build systems to modify Apple subscriptions, handle free trials or extend auto-renew dates. It also would build features based directly on Netflix requests.It also pointed out the power of Apple's App Store content, which can drive downloads. It ran its own tests and found that when it promoted Netflix inside its App Store app, download conversions increased by 6% to 7% and said that Netflix got more App Store placements than any other partner, driving 330,000 downloads, or a 2% conversion rate. Apple does not charge for App Store "editorial" content placements.Finally, the slide deck suggested that Apple could deepen its partnership with Netflix, including using Netflix's commission that Apple collects to buy App Store search ads to drive downloads or bundling Netflix along with Apple services. Another possibility was to offer "video partner program benefits" to Netflix, which sounds similar to a deal Apple has with Amazon Prime Video that allows it to charge customers directly.Despite Apple's apparent efforts, Netflix discontinued new subscriptions through Apple in December 2018, allowing it to bypass Apple's cut on in-app purchases. The Netflix iPhone app currently opens up to the message: "You can't sign up for Netflix in the app. We know it's a hassle."Facebook and Apple had a history of conflictFacebook has had a long conflict with Apple over its desire to put social games in its apps, which conflicts with Apple rules over having collections of apps or software inside apps. Last year, Facebook ramped up its criticism and said that Apple uses its control over its platform to harm developers and consumers.In one 2011 email exchange posted in a document repository as part of the trial and subsequently removed, Apple executives including former CEO Steve Jobs discussed a compromise over games in the Facebook iPad app after former software chief Scott Forstall talked to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.The documents don't show the terms of the compromise. However, when the Facebook iPad app came out in 2011, it included web-based games such as Farmville — bending Apple's rule against app stores on its App Store. But iPhone and iPad users couldn't pay with Facebook's gaming currency, Credits.Internal Facebook deliberations published as part of the Epic Games trial show how that negotiation affected company relations in the years since then.In a 2017 email filed as part of court documents, a Facebook employee attached a short analysis ahead of a Facebook executive's meeting with Apple at Allen and Company's annual business conference in Sun Valley.By then, Facebook wanted clarification or guidance about how to develop "instant games" inside its Facebook Messenger app, which had been slowed by Apple's review process. But the 2011 compromise still loomed large."In late 2016 Apple approved Facebook to move forward with putting 'Instant Games' in Messenger and the FB Blue App," the Facebook employee wrote. "[Former Apple marketing chief] Phil Schiller pulled out an email from 2011 which memorialized an agreement we made allowing FB to stream HMTL5 games as long as we don't create an app store or do in-app payments."The outcome of the Sun Valley meeting is unclear from court documents, but by 2020 Facebook was fighting with Apple's review process again over a standalone gaming app. After one Apple rejection in March 2020, a Facebook employee described in emails frustration with the process and said that it "comes as a surprise given that FB Gaming includes no unique functionality that hasn't already been approved in the Games Tab inside the Facebook App."Facebook, according to the emails, was required to go through the same appeals process as every other developer, including appealing to an Apple body called the App Review Board. However, the social media giant was able to schedule calls with Trystan Kosmynka and Bill Havlicek, leaders of Apple's review group, and later, Ron Okamoto, who was the VP in charge of the group before he retired this year.When Facebook Gaming was eventually released in late 2020, it was clear that Facebook and Apple could not find a compromise."Unfortunately, we had to remove gameplay functionality entirely in order to get Apple's approval on the standalone Facebook Gaming app — meaning iOS users have an inferior experience to those using Android," Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's COO, said in a statement at the time.Microsoft was negotiating about Office for iPad in 2012An email thread from 2012 shows that top Apple executives, including Schiller and Cue, were informed of Microsoft's impending launch of Microsoft Office for iPhones and iPads.Okamoto, who at the time was an Apple VP focusing on developer relations, met with Microsoft. His email to his bosses says that Apple wanted to know if Microsoft could participate in its annual developer's conference, WWDC. (Microsoft declined, saying it wouldn't be ready to talk about its plans yet.)Microsoft had two requests. First, it wanted Apple to let it redirect users to the Microsoft website for in-app purchases. Microsoft would handle the payment, evading Apple's 30% charge for in-app purchases.Second, it wanted Schiller and Cue to meet with Microsoft counterparts, in particular, Kirk Koenigsbauer, who is a current Microsoft senior vice president.Schiller said yes to the meeting but poured cold water on Microsoft's payment proposal in an email. "We run the store, we collect the revenue."Microsoft did not end up releasing Office for the iPad until 2014, after Satya Nadella took over for Steve Ballmer as the company's CEO.Epic Games and MarshmelloBefore Apple removed Epic's shooter game Fortnite from the App Store, it was a top-grossing app on the store, and employees from both companies worked to seal cross-promotion deals, court filings reveal.Epic provided demos at Apple launch events highlighting new technology, quotes about Apple gaming features, and heads-up about its big events and promotions inside Fortnite.In exchange, Epic Games got promotion for Fortnite through the Apple App Store as well as through other Apple media properties such as Apple Music. It also used its relationship with Apple employees to get a Fortnite ripoff kicked off the App Store.One 2019 Epic Games email includes employees talking about a 2019 concert inside the Fortnite game featuring Marshmello, a DJ.Apple wanted to partner — but only after making sure Marshmello's mix wouldn't have curse words — the emails say, and included a proposal for cross-promotion with Apple's Apple Music brand, including billboards in New York and Los Angeles, digital advertising and posts from Apple's social media accounts.Apple needed permission to use the Fortnite name in its Apple Music playlists and ads, but Epic employees were waffling. One worried that Apple was "co-opting and drafting" in Epic's wake.Another employee pointed out the benefits to Epic Games, including that the company wanted Apple to sponsor future Fortnite events and that they saw big opportunity for the game's growth among iPhone players.Plus, "Apple commercials are always tasteful and cool," an Epic employee wrote. "They wouldn't do something sh---y with this."Apple seemed particularly interested in getting Epic Games to support ARKit, software for iPhones that uses its 3D-sensing hardware to integrate the real world and computer graphics.Epic emails from 2017 discussed a meeting with Apple to integrate the iPhone's face tracking to create animated characters.The partnership between the two companies extended through 2020. Shortly after Apple released a high-end iPad model with a new 3D scanner, an Apple employee offered Epic Games a meeting with Apple's ARKit team that made the software for it and later dangled the possibility of promotion at its annual developer conference.In 2018, after Fortnite had been released and had gained momentum, Epic Games co-founder Mark Rein replied to an email, asking, "[I]s there anything we can do so Apple could get behind us in a major way?"Rein said he had a February meeting with Apple already scheduled and that Apple was "VERY" interested in seeing the smartphone version of Fortnite.Apple had promoted Fortnite since 2015, when an early version of the game was demonstrated on-stage playing on a Mac at Apple's WWDC conference.However, the relationship between the two companies didn't mean that the negotiations ever got to the level of Apple CEO Tim Cook. In 2015, weeks after Epic Games presented at an Apple event, Epic Games CEO Tim Sweeney sent an email to Cook complaining about the App Store's rules, in a preview of Epic's arguments currently being hashed out in court.Cook asked his lieutenants: "Is this the guy that was at one of our rehearsals?"

2021/05/07, Apple's launch promotional material of the new iPhone12 Pro seen displayed on a mobile phone screen with an Apple logo in the background.Pavlo Gonchar | LightRocket | Getty ImagesApple is widely expected to launch the next generation of iPhones in the second half of 2021.Japanese investment bank Daiwa predicted there will be four new iPhone 13 models this year, similar to the line-up of the iPhone 12 series.Production of the new devices will boost shares of Apple's suppliers in the Greater China region, and the current quarter may be a good time to buy those stocks, the bank said.Here are Daiwa's top picks for Apple suppliers in the region — one of them has an upside of 65%.

2021/05/07, In this articleTILEAAPLAMZNVIDEO1:2901:29Amazon versus Apple in the battle for the new shared networkTechCheckAmazon is beefing up its network of connected devices to take on technologies like Apple's new AirTags.Amazon announced Friday that it is partnering with Tile, a company that makes trackers for lost items, and Level, which makes smart locks, to use those devices to enhance its tracking network based on Wi-Fi and Bluetooth technology.The strength and number of devices on a given tracking network is key to its accuracy. That's part of the reason why many think Apple's tracking network will be so strong since it relies on more than 1 billion iPhones, iPads and Macs to help with lost item tracking.Tile has also been vocal against Apple's entry into the lost-item tracking space, recently telling Congress that it and other app developers are "afraid" of Apple's policies for third-party apps and hardware accessories.Amazon's partnership will allow it beef up its tracking network, called Sidewalk, by letting Tile and Level devices tap into the Bluetooth networks created by millions of its Echo products. Tile will start working with Amazon's network beginning June 14."Sidewalk is all about the next billion things that are going to get on the network," Amazon product boss Dave Limp told CNBC's "TechCheck" on Friday. "Wi-Fi is constrained, mostly to your home, it just doesn't have the range to go into your backyard into the neighborhood. Cellular may be the future, but it's very expensive today. So Sidewalk kind of splits the difference between those two and allows us to put millions and billions of things on the edge of the network but do it in a secure way."Sidewalk rolled out late last year and is billed as a free network sharing service throughout neighborhoods that uses Echo devices as "bridges" to share a small fraction of a users' low-bandwidth Wi-Fi with devices like Echo devices and Ring cameras.Limp said in a statement that Tile will work with Sidewalk by integrating compatible Echo devices to extend Tile's network coverage even further, in the effort to help users securely locate misplaced keys, wallets and other items.Amazon said Sidewalk will also strengthen Tile's existing in-home finding experience with Alexa. Customers can say, "Alexa, find my keys" and their Tile tracker will start ringing from a coat pocket or from under the bed signaling where to find their lost item.Amazon also said users with multiple Echo devices connected to Sidewalk will be able to find misplaced items around their homes even faster. Alexa can tell users which Echo device their Tiled item is closer to, whether it is the kitchen speaker or their bedroom speaker and the day and time it was last seen near that device.Apple announced its Tile-like product, AirTags, last month. They work in a similar way with iOS devices like iPhones and iPads. Now, Tile will connect through a larger technology ecosystem, pitting Amazon and Apple against each other in a new front of connected devices.Sidewalk's second partnership with Level allows users to control their locks in the Ring and Level apps without needing to be in Bluetooth range of their mobile device. Instead of relying on their mobile device's Bluetooth connection, a Level lock will be able to connect directly to a compatible Ring Video Doorbell Pro device using an Amazon Sidewalk Bluetooth connection shared only between their two devices.This means that even if a user is across town, their Level lock will stay connected, creating further functionalities within the Ring app to see and speak with whomever is at the entryway and easily lock or unlock their front door.Amazon said its new smart-lock Level features are rolling out through updates in the Ring and Level apps and will be available by the end of May.In response to privacy concerns, Amazon last September released a detailed white paper outlining the steps it's taking to ensure that Sidewalk transmissions stay private and secure.Amazon said Sidewalk is equipped with multiple layers of privacy and security and that data shared over its network is protected with three layers of encryption. It's only accessible by the devices consumers choose, and data is automatically deleted every 24 hours to protect privacy. Consumers can choose to opt out of the feature by updating their preference in the Ring or Alexa mobile apps.--CNBC's Marc Gilbert contributed to this report.

2021/05/06, An illustrative image of Amazon Shopping app seen on a mobile phone screen in front of an old (L) and a new (R) Amazon Shopping app icons displayed on a screen. Amazon has quietly changed its new Amazon Shopping app icon, replacing the blue ribbon on top that drew some unfavorable comparisons. On Wednesday, March 3, 2021, in Dublin, Ireland.Artur Widak | NurPhoto | Getty ImagesAmazon's advertising business is soaring.The company's massive "other" business category, which is primarily (but not exclusively) ad revenue, grew 77% in the first quarter to $6.9 billion in revenue.Apple's recent privacy changes, which make it easier for users to block advertisers from tracking them, could add more fuel to its growth. Amazon holds an enormous amount of in-depth consumer data — as of last month, the company said it had more than 200 million global members in its Prime program. As Apple's App Tracking Transparency changes goes into effect, Amazon's data will likely become a more rare and valuable commodity for marketers. Apple's changes to iOS 14.5 mean that iPhone and iPad users can opt out more easily from the kind of tracking that helps advertisers target ads or measure whether ads worked. Although Amazon will also have to show this prompt to its customers, it matters less for the e-commerce giant. When users are logged in to Amazon properties, the company can still track what they're doing in the app, which ads they saw or clicked or purchased from, regardless of whether a user opted in or not.It's not yet clear how much other major players who rely more on third-party information (like Facebook) will be hurt by Apple's changes, or for how long. Ad agency leaders told CNBC their client budgets for the most part are staying stable as they wait and see how these changes will impact their campaigns' performances.But many in the marketing world said they see Amazon, and similar data-rich ad offerings from companies like Walmart or Target, as a reliable way to keep getting the kind of data they rely on to target ads and measure performance. Amazon's strong first-party relationship with consumers means it could still collect activity across its various properties. If shoppers watch an ad on Prime Video, for instance, and eventually make a purchase later on, it should be able to offer marketers that intel.With that status in the market, Amazon looks poised to keep expanding its role in the ad ecosystem. It could from its traditional role as a place where consumer packaged goods marketers push specific products to potentially expanding into a brand advertising powerhouse.Representatives from Amazon declined to comment on the iOS 14.5 changes and its potential impact on the company's ad revenue.What Apple's change means for Amazon's ads Apple released iOS 14.5 last week, a regular update to its iPhone and iPad operating system. The update included a new framework giving users more transparency and control over apps that want to track them for advertising. When users on the new iOS open an app, they see a pop-up asking if the app can access their unique device ID for advertisers. That pop-up will ask if they want to be tracked, and will show why the app wants you to opt in. For instance, an app might say you'll get ads that are more relevant to your interests if you allow tracking.The impact is likely to vary. In January, MKM Partners released a study based on a framework to determine IDFA risk to online companies, based on seven factors. Of the companies examined, Amazon would be among the lowest tier of exposure, they said. Experts largely see the "walled gardens" of Facebook, Google and Amazon as suffering less from the changes happening in the industry. Though advertising will lose much of the data the players have relied on, the large ones still have data around what people are doing on their own properties.But even on the tier of the walled gardens, the impact will depend, and social networks may have less data that marketers want than an e-commerce player like Amazon."Not all walled gardens are created equal," Mindshare chief data strategy officer Shane McAndrew said.When it comes to Amazon's bread-and-butter ad products – ads that let companies buy placement within Amazon sites and apps – advertisers are likely to see little impact, said Will Tjernlund, chief marketing officer of Goat Consulting, a firm that focuses on brands selling on Amazon. "The traditional, older advertising products within Amazon will see no effect. It should be just as good as normal," Tjernlund said. "Since they use Amazon's own data, they attract people within Amazon's own websites or own apps." And if users are logged in across different Amazon properties, that data shouldn't be impacted. For instance, if someone was logged in to Amazon's IMDb TV upcoming app, that data could be used for marketing purposes on the Amazon app, even if that user had opted-out of sharing their ad identifier on their phone. "All that data is fair game for use in targeting ads to Amazon users on Amazon-owned properties," analyst and owner of website Mobile Dev Memo Eric Seufert said.Where advertisers could start to run into some difficulty with Amazon in a post-IDFA world involves the company's ad products that involve off-site tracking, which aren't a huge proportion of its business. For instance, Amazon may struggle somewhat with its demand-side platform, which advertisers can use to reach consumers both on Amazon properties and on third-party sites.Amazon doesn't break out revenue for its various products publicly, but experts believe ads running off-site are a fairly small proportion of its ad business. EMarketer estimates 89% of Amazon's net digital ad revenues in the U.S. are from e-commerce channel ads, meaning on-site ads likely constitute the vast majority.Following the changes by Apple and Google, which is planning to deprecate third-party tracking cookies, tracking off-site is not going to be as easy."It's going to be a challenge for them to be able to buy media off-site off of their properties, using their data. We know that's going to be an issue on desktop, it's going to be an issue on mobile," Forrester senior analyst Collin Colburn said. "The headwind is certainly going to be off-site, which has been a category that they've been trying to grow."The pandemic and the rise of 'retail media'Amazon sits at the forefront of another trend in marketing.With so many consumers at home and not purchasing in stores at the beginning of the pandemic, brands were looking for even more intel into who their customers are and how they were buying. Walmart, Target, CVS, Kroger and a slew of other companies have ad offerings in the "retail media" space – the ability to target ads for products where consumers are actually buying them on those sites. Forrester Research estimates brands spent at least $5 billion on retail media in 2020. Though some of these offerings have existed for years, retailers like Walmart have been doubling down in the area."It's booming. I mean, it's absolutely huge at this point," Colburn said. "We were very conservative in saying that brands spent at least $5 billion on retail media in 2020. It's much more than that." In a world where advertisers have a more difficult time tracking consumers across sites, retail media solutions are a way to get more insight at the point of purchase.  "The problem is when you click on a Google ad or a Facebook ad, you don't know if it's converting or not," former Amazon employee and CEO of CommerceIQ Guru Hariharan said. CommerceIQ advises brands on their Amazon business. "You know it got clicked but you don't know who clicked it. So we're seeing a bunch of those dollars moving."Following Apple's changes, "the ability for me to target you as a profile or a consumer is reduced, which means it becomes even less measurable, whereas Amazon and Walmart are becoming more and more measurable," Hariharan said. "If you're General Mills, Walmart becomes a lot more interesting to you because grocery shopping is still happening more on Walmart than on Amazon."Moving up the funnel Advertisers want to know they're getting their money's worth. So even if they're running a big branding effort that doesn't necessarily urge a consumer to buy a pair of shorts or download an app right away, they want to know the advertising did something. Brands may be looking for environments to advertise that gives them those answers once that ability becomes more difficult, once they can no longer rely on as much third-party data. Amazon, with its extensive first-party data relationships with so many consumers, is increasingly positioning itself as one solution.Amazon's booming advertising business is primarily being driven right now by purchase-driven advertising. This includes "low-hanging fruit" like sponsored ads in search or elsewhere on the site, Mediaocean chief marketing officer Aaron Goldman said. But Amazon is increasingly making a play for more brand-driven advertising as well, which could accelerate growth significantly.Amazon has already signaled it's deepening its brand advertising initiatives. During its inaugural NewFronts presentation on Monday, the company highlighted opportunities for marketers to tap into its video properties, including streaming platforms Prime Video, IMDb TV and Twitch, as well as big-ticket events like "Thursday Night Football." To that end, Amazon said its ad-supported video content now reaches more than 120 million monthly viewers. Marketers and industry analysts told CNBC they believe it won't be long before Amazon ramps up audio advertising as well. The company said as much last month at the Interactive Advertising Bureau's annual leadership meeting, where it teased its upcoming moves in the podcast ads space. The company can leverage its recent purchase of podcasting start-up Wondery and its ad-supported Amazon Music service to drive additional advertising revenue, by allowing brands to buy ads alongside audio content. Amazon is also growing brand advertising on its core e-commerce platform by featuring sponsored video ads within search, which is a valuable tool for small and big businesses that sell products on Amazon."I think this is a massive opportunity," Mindshare's McAndrew said. "You're going to see them move purposefully into the brand advertising area in ways they haven't before. They've got all the ingredients," to win in this realm, he said.But there's still work to be done in this realm, MightyHive go-to-market director Nicholas Seo said."For some of these more creative formats that are more involved executions and integrations, there's a lot of work that needs to be done at the back end," he said. "I think the interest is definitely there, at least from our clients, but more so Amazon has prioritization to do as to where they want to focus. But we definitely see a lot of things ramping up on that side."And it could promote even higher growth."I still think they can keep growing at 70% just off the backs of direct response, I think they can get north of 100% once they start fully monetizing the brand opportunity," Goldman said, pointing to opportunities like video and audio ads. VIDEO12:4712:47Why U.S. malls are disappearingRetail

2021/05/04, In this articleFBApple Inc.'s former CEO, the late Steve Jobs, announces the new iPad on January 27, 2010 in San Francisco, California.Justin Sullivan | Getty Images News | Getty ImagesAn email chain revealed by Epic Games as part of its lawsuit against Apple provides earlier context about Facebook's battle with Apple over its App Store.Last August, Facebook said Apple's App Store rules were hampering it from releasing its Facebook Gaming app for iPhones in the way it wanted to.Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg said the company had to remove the part of the app that played games — the point of the app — in order to secure approval on Apple's App Store for iPhones. Now, emails between three former Apple executives, including Steve Jobs, from 2011 show that a similar conflict between Apple and Facebook was likely part of the reason for a delay for the release of a Facebook app for iPads over a decade ago.Tensions between Apple and Facebook over what the App Store rejects are ongoing. Last year, Facebook publicly accused Apple of using its control over the App Store and iPhone to "harm developers and consumers."The exchange was published as part of a cache of exhibits used in the Apple-Epic trial, but was removed after it was posted.Apple's iPad came out in 2010, but Facebook didn't release an app for it until October 2011. Between those two dates, a Facebook engineer even quit in a public blog post, citing delays in the app's release partially because of a "strained relationship with Apple."In July 2011, Apple's then-software head Scott Forstall sent an email to former Apple marketing chief Phil Schiller and Jobs. In the message, he said that he had spoken with Mark — presumably Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg — about the Facebook iPad app.He wrote that he told Mark that Facebook should not include "embedded apps" in its Facebook iPad app."Not surprisingly, he wasn't happy with this as he considers these apps part of the 'whole Facebook experience' and isn't sure they should do an iPad app without them," Forstall wrote.At the time, Facebook was turning its social network into a platform for games and apps. The most famous of these was Farmville, a game where users tended gardens inside their Facebook accounts.Facebook wanted Apple to compromise. Mark suggested, according to Forstall:Facebook could omit a directory of Apps in the Facebook app — not even links.Facebook could prevent third-party apps from running in an "embedded web view," or basically a browser inside the Facebook app.Facebook wanted Apple to allow user posts in the news feed related to apps. Forstall wrote that those were filtered at the time, because tapping those posts would do nothing.Facebook proposed having tapping one of those app links in the feed switch the user to a native app or take them to the App Store if one exists, or otherwise link out to Safari, the iPhone web browser.Jobs, then CEO of Apple, replied from his iPad: "I agree — if we eliminate Fecebooks third proposal it sounds reasonable."Three days later, Forstall followed up, saying he had a long conversation with Mark, and that Facebook didn't like Apple's counterproposal to forbid Facebook apps to link out to Safari."But according to Mark, there is no obvious way to distinguish between a poker game and the NYT. Both are Facebook developers and provide Facebook integration," Forstall wrote.Schiller, who was Apple's head of marketing until last year and runs Apple's Executive Review Board that makes calls whether apps will be approved by Apple, summed up Apple's position."I don't see why we want to do that," Schiller wrote. "All these apps won't be native, they won't have a relationship or license with us, we won't review them, they won't use our APIs or tools, they won't use our stores, etc."When Facebook's iPad app eventually launched, it said it would not support its own Credits currency on iOS for apps like Farmville — a compromise along the lines of what Apple's executives discussed.In recent years, the rivalry between the two Silicon Valley neighbors has heated up. Current Apple CEO Tim Cook has taken lightly veiled shots at Facebook's handling of user privacy, and used Facebook as the example for a recent feature about asking apps "not to track."Facebook has mounted an ad campaign to say that the iPhone maker's privacy features hurt small businesses. It has also continued to tweak Apple's App Store policies, criticizing Apple's 30% App Store fee for online events in addition to its complaints about its gaming app.Facebook isn't part of Epic Games' argument in its legal battle against Apple and its App Store policies. The trial started on Monday and is expected to run three weeks.VIDEO1:1901:19Epic Games vs. Apple trial begins — What to expectClosing Bell

2021/05/03, In this articleAAPLTim Sweeney, chief executive officer of Epic Games Inc., arrives at U.S. district court in Oakland, California, U.S., on Monday, May, 3, 2021.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesEpic Games argued that Apple purposely locks in its customers in the first day of a landmark trial with Apple over the rules of the App Store.Epic is looking to force Apple to open up iPhone software distribution so it could use its own payment processor, bypassing Apple's customary 30% fee on digital goods. A favorable ruling could even allow Epic to offer its own app store for iPhones.Apple is arguing that it built the App Store and gets to set the rules, which are designed to ensure that apps are high quality and secure."Epic wants us to be Android, but we don't want to be. And our consumers don't want that either. They want the choice," Apple lawyer Karen Dunn said.Epic's argument is that Apple's App Store is anti-competitive, and that its arguments about quality and security are essentially an excuse to exclude competitors like Epic Games' title Fortnite, which was booted from Apple's store last year after it introduced a direct payment mechanism.On Monday, Apple's and Epic's lawyers both made their opening statements, and Epic Games founder and CEO Tim Sweeney testified. The trial is expected to last three weeks.Walled gardenA core part of the debate centers around the relevant market that Apple allegedly dominates.Epic is arguing that the relevant market is iPhone app distribution. Apple says it is game distribution, and that users can easily switch to other phones and game consoles.To bolster its definition, Epic is trying to show how Apple works to lock users into its products, making it more difficult to switch to Android or other platforms. On Monday, Epic lawyers cited several internal Apple documents, some over a decade old, while arguing that Apple executives built a "walled garden" brick by brick."Getting customers using our stores (iTunes, App, and iBookstore) is one of the best things we can do to get people hooked into the ecosystem," Eddy Cue, current Apple online services senior vice president, wrote to Apple CEO Tim Cook in 2013, according to an email revealed by Epic Games."Who leaves Apple products once they've bought apps, music, movies, etc!" Cue concluded.In another exchange, Apple executives discussed in 2013 whether releasing a version of iMessage for Android would make it easier to switch phone brands. iMessage is still exclusive to Apple products."I am concerned that the iMessage on Android would simply serve to remove and obstacle to iPhone families giving their kids Android phones," Craig Federighi, Apple software senior vice president, wrote in 2013.In 2016, a customer emailed Apple saying that iMessage amounts to "serious lock-in." As part of an internal conversation about that email, Apple's current head of marketing, Greg Joswiak, wrote to colleagues, "we hear this a lot."Most recently, Federighi wrote to Cook about Apple's sign-in feature which enables users to log into apps with an Apple login, saying that the feature is likely to "make our platform more sticky" in 2019.Epic also argued that Apple doesn't need the App Store approval process to keep iPhone users safe. Epic contended that because Apple has sometimes approved low-quality apps for the store, its approval process is ineffective and doesn't protect user security.In an email produced as part of proceedings, former Apple marketing boss Phil Schiller wrote in 2012 "Is no one minding the store? This is insane!!!!!!!" in response to a report of an "obvious rip off" app becoming the top free app on Apple's platform.Apple doesn't want to be AndroidApple Fellow Phil Schiller arrives at federal court on May 03, 2021 in Oakland, California.Justin Sullivan | Getty ImagesIn Apple's opening statement, it emphasized that its rules have helped created a vibrant ecosystem that benefits iPhone developers, with more than 1.8 million apps in the App Store.Apple said that Epic made $750 million from the App Store, arguing that the trial is merely about money and that Epic planned this lawsuit and a related marketing campaign in order to use Apple's technology without paying. Apple also said that Epic was looking at the wrong market and cannot show anti-competitive conduct in the gaming market — users can switch to Android, Microsoft Xbox or Sony Playstation.Apple also defended its "walled garden" without using those terms, citing its App Review department that manually reviews and approves apps and filters out "obviously malicious apps." It said that based on its research, iOS represents only 2% of malware infections among all computing platforms."Take away from the security particular to the iPhones and the bad actors have a field day. This is why Android security statistics are so much worse," Dunn said."We thought about the fact that the iPhone is a phone that you're carrying around, you need it to work for you as a phone, and we cared deeply about the security of that device so it would be more protected and more reliable than PCs were at the time," Apple cited Schiller saying.That's why Apple doesn't allow "sideloading," or manual installation of apps, like Android does, Apple argued. If Epic wins, Apple contended, it would mean a less secure iPhone operating system.What's the App Store margin?Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsEpic Games' disputed filing about Apple App Store margins.Epic Games/Court filingIn its opening argument, Epic lawyers said that Apple's App Store generates large profits, with operating margins of 78% in 2019 and 75% in 2018.Epic cited Ned Barnes, one of its expert witnesses, who says he used internal Apple documents to come up with the calculation.The profitability of Apple's App Store will be part of Epic's argument that Apple uses its market power to extract excess fees from software developers."We have documents, long detailed PowerPoints prepared for Apple's senior executive team that lay out the profitability of the App Store in regular presentations given multiple years in a row," Epic lawyer Katherine Forrest said.Apple disputes the accuracy of the number and has said that the company doesn't look at profit and loss for specific units, instead looking at Apple's financials on a higher level."They're going to pull documents out of context in this case. This is incredibly misleading," said Apple lawyer Dunn. She said in court Monday that Apple doesn't internally allocate to the App Store the costs of building the technology for the store, and that the company has an integrated business model."Apple is concerned that analysts, investors, reporters, and others in the marketplace could misinterpret the public disclosure of non-public, unaudited financial information," Apple lawyers previously wrote in a court filing.Apple's App Store is part of Apple's services business, which executives have highlighted to investors as a source of growth. Apple reported $53.77 billion in sales in its services line in its fiscal 2020 with a 66% gross margin (its fiscal year ended Sept. 26, 2020). Apple's services sales also includes subscriptions like Apple Music, AppleCare warranties and licensing fees in addition to the App Store.

2021/05/05, Ferrari SF90 StradaleSource: FerrariHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2021/05/01, In this articleAAPLApple CEO Tim CookSpencer Platt | Getty ImagesIn February, Apple CEO Tim Cook told shareholders that the company had bought about 100 companies in the past six years. That works out to the iPhone maker buying a company every three to four weeks.The statistic gives the impression of a dealmaking machine. But only a handful of those deals have been big splashy transactions like the $3 billion deal for headphone maker Beats Music in 2014. The vast majority have been for significantly smaller firms without a major public profile.While big tech rivals routinely strike multi-billion dollar deals, Apple has followed a different strategy. It's refined the "acquihire," or strategic purchase of a small company primarily for its staff.People who have joined Apple through an acquisition and participated in the acquisition process told CNBC that Apple's acquisition strategy focuses on getting talented technical staff from smaller companies, often valuing those companies in terms of the number of engineers working there, and quickly and quietly integrating them into teams at Apple.Apple has used acquihires to speed expansion in fields where it needs technical talent or it sees a specific technology that could set it apart from its rivals. While the acquihire is a common technique among big tech companies, Apple's near-exclusive focus on smaller transactions sets it apart."We have seen companies such as Google, Facebook, Intel and Amazon going for many billion-dollar deals," said Nicklas Nilsson, analyst at GlobalData, a firm that tracks M&A transactions. "Apple is buying more smaller startups while others spend more on established players."Cook said in an interview with CNBC in 2019 that the company's approach is to identify where the company has technical challenges and then to buy companies that address them. One example was the acquisition of AuthenTec in 2012, which led to the iPhone's fingerprint scanner. "We bought a company that accelerated Touch ID at a point," Cook said.Other past acquisitions have become features in Apple products. In 2017, Apple bought an iPhone app for power users called Workflow, which is the basis for Shortcuts app. In 2018, it bought Texture, which reemerged as Apple News+, its subscription news service. Even Siri, its voice assistant, was the result of an 2010 acquisition.Apple has gone on sprees picking up multiple firms in augmented and virtual reality, artificial intelligence, maps, health, and semiconductors, presaging future products or features.Buying technical staffMany of Apple's deals have flown under the radar. According to a CNBC analysis of public reports, Apple has purchased 55 companies since January 2015, in line with a congressional report from last year and significantly lower than Cook's own tally.People who have participated in Apple's acquisition process say Apple expects discretion -- unsurprising given how secretive the company is. Apple generally doesn't announce small acquisitions and warns staff at the acquired companies not to update LinkedIn profiles to say they were acquired by Apple. If a member of the media gets wind of a deal and asks, Apple sometimes confirms deals with a boilerplate phrase that it "generally does not discuss" its purpose or plans for acquired companies. One person who sold a company to Apple said that after news of his deal broke, he could not respond to friends and family congratulating him. He asked not to be named because he is under non-disclosure agreements.While every deal is different in its specifics, there are a few commonalities to Apple's approach. Apple is generally not interested in continuing the acquired company's line of business, and forces acquired units to discontinue future products or shed customers. The revenue generated by smaller companies is usually immaterial and unimportant to Apple, which reported $274.52 billion in sales in its fiscal 2020.Apple is particularly interested in technical staff, who are often called "individual contributors" in Silicon Valley jargon. It's less interested in hiring sales or support staff, according to people who have participated in the process. Apple has put conditions on transactions that a certain number of technical employees must join Apple or the deal would fall through.These technical employees get what are called "golden handcuffs," or large stock packages that vest over three or four years. Acquired staff also get paid for their equity in the company that was acquired. Some people familiar with Apple's process say that it assigns value to companies based on the number of technical employees, with a price tag of around $3 million per engineer, instead of basing it on the start-up's revenue or fundraising track record.No bankersOften, Apple's acquisition process starts after a demo to technical teams at Apple. Apple frequently invites other companies to show technology that Apple might want to partner with or license, and sometimes these meetings kick off an acquisition process.When a manager on those teams decides they want the technology or talent, they bring it up to the M&A team, which acts as a service organization helping Apple's engineering groups close the transaction smoothly, a person familiar with the process said.Once the transaction is completed, Apple has a team that focuses on integrating the new employees into the specific technical group where they'll contribute. Individual contributors who join Apple through an acquisition often stay past their first vesting cliff, meaning that their first large chunk of Apple stock has been granted to them, and can stay with the company for years, signaling an effective integration.For smaller deals, Apple doesn't typically deploy bankers. Apple's M&A team does due diligence, interviews team members and keeps the transaction on track to close. One person who declined to be named because of NDAs said that Apple's team was unusually trustworthy and professional compared to other companies he had engaged in talks with, although they knew what they wanted to pay for the company when the process started, he said.A closer look at what Apple is buying can reveal where the company is expanding quickly. One field is in augmented and virtual reality technologies, where Apple has bought 12 companies since 2013 as it builds out the Technology Development Group (TDG) division, which is working on head-worn computers. Apple is working on a high-end VR headset for release in 2022 and more advanced, lightweight glasses in 2023 or later, according to reports.For example, in 2018 Apple bought Akonia Holographics, which worked on smart glasses lenses. Last year, Apple bought NextVR, which wrangled content for virtual reality headsets, and Spaces, a spin-off out of DreamWorks Animation that built location-based virtual reality experiences.More recently, Apple has been snapping up firms working on artificial intelligence, buying 25 companies in the space since 2016, according to GlobalData.Skilled workers in AI can be difficult to hire because many companies want them. Apple is also working to improve its Siri voice assistant to compete with Amazon's Alexa and Google's assistant.Last year, Apple bought a Seattle-based firm called Xnor.ai for a reported $200 million. It followed that up by buying Ireland's Voysis, which worked on understanding speech. In 2019, it bought Pullstring, which made tools to build talking toys like Barbie.Apple could certainly go for bigger game with more than $200 billion of cash and liquid investments and over $80 billion in annual free cash flow. Wall Street bankers have encouraged a big purchase in the past, and Apple did spend $1 billion to buy Intel's wireless modem business, including 2,200 employees, in 2019. That year, Apple promoted its head of M&A, Adrian Perica, to its executive team reporting to Cook. Still, Apple has been judicious, leading many financiers to believe that a big acquisition is not part of the company's DNA."We're not afraid to look at acquisitions of any size. But our priority is on valuation and strategic fit, and our focus is generally going to be on small, innovative companies exploring technologies that complement our products, and help push them forward," Cook said at the shareholder meeting. Apple declined to comment for this story.VIDEO4:1304:13Josh Brown on why Apple's stock isn't higher after record earningsHalftime Report

2021/05/03, In this articleAAPLApple CEO, Tim Cook waves as he opens the door of the newly renovated Apple Store at Fifth Avenue on September 20, 2019 in New York City. (Photo by Kena Betancur / AFP) (Photo credit should read KENA BETANCUR/AFP via Getty Images)KENA BETANCUR | AFP | Getty ImagesA top Apple analyst predicted Monday that the company will likely launch a foldable iPhone in 2023.TFI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo said that based on an industry survey, he believes the foldable iPhone will reach 15 million to 20 million units in 2023. The new model will likely have an 8-inch foldable OLED display, according to Kuo. That means it might work like an iPhone that can open up to a tablet with a screen slightly larger than the 7.9-inch display on an iPad mini.The foldable model is now a "must-have" for major smartphone brands, Kuo said in a note to clients."After 5G, the foldable smartphone is the next innovative selling point of high-end models," he wrote.Samsung, Huawei and Xiaomi have each introduced models, though the price still make them relatively inaccessible to most consumers.  Apple has some hurdles it may need to overcome. All of Apple's iPads, for example, support drawing input with an Apple Pencil. But most foldable phones don't support pen input since they're relatively fragile compared with traditional phone screens.Kuo said Apple is poised to lead the foldable device trend, which he said "will blur the product segmentations between smartphones, tablets, and laptops."An Apple spokesperson was not immediately available to comment on Kuo's note.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO3:0703:07Joanna Stern: Apple taking wait-and-see approach to foldable phonesPower Lunch

2021/04/30, In this articleAAPLExecutive Vice-President of the European Commission for a Europe fit for the Digital Age (Competition), Margrethe Vestager, holds a press conference on "Apple on App Store rules for music streaming providers" in Brussels, Belgium on April 30, 2021.Dursun Aydemir | Anadolu Agency | Getty ImagesFor a long time, the European Commission seemed to stand apart from the U.S. in cracking down on tech giants with antitrust fines against Google and privacy rules like the General Data Protection Regulation.But when EU competition policy chief Margrethe Vestager announced Friday a preliminary finding that Apple has abused its dominant power in the distribution of streaming music apps, the U.S. finally seemed poised to move in a similar direction."The Commission's argument on Spotify's behalf is the opposite of fair competition," Apple said in a statement following Vestager's announcement, referring to the music streaming company that raised the competition complaint. Apple said Spotify wants "all the benefits of the App Store but don't think they should have to pay anything for that," by choosing to object to its 15-30% commission on in-app payments for streaming apps.Apple isn't currently facing any antitrust charges from government officials in the U.S. and such a lawsuit may never materialize, though the Justice Department was reportedly granted oversight of the company's competitive practices in 2019. But even if the government declines to press charges, recent actions in Congress, state legislatures and in private lawsuits demonstrate a significant shift in the American public's sentiment toward Apple and the tech industry at large.When the commission slapped its first record competition fine against Google in 2017, it wasn't yet clear that the U.S. might be ready to move on from its once-cozy relationship with its booming tech industry. But in 2018 — on the heels of the revelations of how Facebook user data was used by analytics company Cambridge Analytica during the 2016 election, and increasing questions about how tech platforms can impact American democracy — that seemed to change.Now, as Europe continues to move forward with its probe into Apple, the U.S. no longer seems to be so far behind.Here's where Apple stands to face risk of antitrust action or regulation in the U.S.:DOJThe DOJ has already moved forward with a massive lawsuit against Google, so it could take some time if it decides to ramp up a probe into Apple. Though the DOJ's Antitrust Division took on oversight authority of Apple in a 2019 agreement with the FTC, according to a Wall Street Journal report, the Google investigation has seemed to take priority.Still, then-Attorney General Bill Barr announced later that year that the DOJ would conduct a broad antitrust review of Big Tech companies.Any action from the DOJ or state enforcers would take the form of a settlement or lawsuit, which would put Apple's fate in the hands of the courts.Private lawsuitsThe popular video game "Fortnite" by Epic Games is pictured on a screen in this picture illustration August 14, 2020.Brendan McDermid | ReutersApple's most immediate challenge in the U.S. has come from private companies bringing antitrust charges against its business in court.The most notable of these lawsuits is from Fortnite-maker Epic Games, which is set to begin its trial on Monday. Epic filed its lawsuit with a PR blitz after challenging Apple's in-app payment fee by advertising in its app an alternative, cheaper way to buy character outfits from Epic directly, violating Apple's rules. That prompted Apple to remove Fortnite from its App Store. Epic filed the suit shortly after and Apple filed counterclaims against Epic for allegedly breaching its contract."Although Epic portrays itself as a modern corporate Robin Hood, in reality it is a multi-billion dollar enterprise that simply wants to pay nothing for the tremendous value it derives from the App Store," Apple said in a filing with the District Court for the Northern District of California in September.CongressSen. Amy Klobuchar, D-MN, asks questions during a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology, and the Law, at the U.S. Capitol in Washington DC, April 27, 2021.Tasos Katopodis | Pool | ReutersJust last week, several app-makers testified before the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust about the alleged anti-competitive harms they've faced from restrictions on both Apple and Google's app stores.Representatives from Apple and Google told lawmakers they simply charge for the technology and the work they put into running the app stores, which have significantly lowered distribution costs for app developers over the years.But witnesses from Tinder-owner Match Group, item-tracking device-maker Tile and Spotify painted a different picture."We're all afraid," Match Group chief legal officer Jared Sine testified of the platforms' broad power over their businesses.The witnesses discussed the seemingly arbitrary nature by which Apple allegedly enforces its App Store rules. Spotify's legal chief claimed Apple has threatened retaliation on numerous occasions and Tile's top lawyer said Apple denied access to a key feature that would improve their object-tracking product, before utilizing it for Apple's own rival gadget, called AirTag.Tile said that while Apple now makes the feature available for third-party developers to incorporate, accessing it would mean handing over a significant amount of data and control to Apple. Apple's representative said its product is different from Tile's and opening the feature in question will encourage further competition in the space.Senators at the hearing seemed receptive to the app developers' complaints, which build on earlier claims made before House lawmakers. The House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust found in a more than year-long probe that Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google all hold monopoly power, and lawmakers are currently crafting bills to enable stronger antitrust enforcement of digital markets.State LegislaturesSeveral state legislatures have been considering bills that would require platforms like Apple and Google to allow app-makers to use their own payment processing systems. While the bills have so far had varying degrees of success in the early stages of lawmaking, passage in one state could raise a host of questions about how it should be enforced given the ambiguous nature of digital borders.The bills have been supported by the Coalition for App Fairness, a group of companies that have complained about app store fees, including Epic Games, Match Group and Spotify.Apple has often argued that it maintains features like payments within its own ecosystem in order to protect consumers and secure their data, though app developers and lawmakers have expressed skepticism about that reasoning.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: Apple's fight with Epic Games is part of a larger antitrust battleVIDEO3:2703:27Apple's fight with Epic Games is part of a larger antitrust battleTech

2021/04/30, In this articleAAPLSPOTEuropean Commissioner for Europe fit for the Digital Age, Margrethe Vestager, gestures as she speaks during an online news conference on Apple antitrust case at the EU headquarters in Brussels, on April 30, 2021.Francisco Seco | AFP | Getty ImagesLONDON — Apple has "abused its dominant position" in the distribution of music streaming apps through its App Store, the European Commission said Friday."Our preliminary finding is that Apple exercises considerable market power in the distribution of music streaming apps to owners of Apple devices. On that market, Apple has a monopoly," Margrethe Vestager, the head of competition policy in the EU, said in a press conference.The European Commission, the EU's executive arm, opened an antitrust investigation into the App Store last year, after the music streaming platform Spotify complained in 2019 about Apple's license agreements. The agreements mean that app developers have to pay a 30% commission on all subscription fees that come through the App Store.VIDEO1:4901:49EU says Apple's App Store breaks competition rulesSquawk on the StreetOn Friday, the EU said it took issue with the "mandatory use of Apple's own in-app purchase mechanism imposed on music streaming app developers to distribute their apps via Apple's App Store."App developers are also unable to inform users of alternative ways to purchase the same apps elsewhere — another issue the commission said it was concerned with."The European Commission has informed Apple of its preliminary view that it distorted competition in the music streaming market as it abused its dominant position for the distribution of music streaming apps through its App Store," it summarized in a "statement of objections" sent to Apple.In response, Apple said the EU's case was the "opposite of fair competition.""Spotify has become the largest music subscription service in the world, and we're proud of the role we played in that," Apple said a statement. "Once again, they want all the benefits of the App Store but don't think they should have to pay anything for that."A statement of objections is part of the formal process in an antitrust investigation, but it does not conclude the probe. Apple now has to reply to the commission's concerns either in writing or via a oral hearing.Spotify welcomed the news Friday. "The European Commission's Statement of Objections is a critical step toward holding Apple accountable for its anticompetitive behavior, ensuring meaningful choice for all consumers and a level playing field for app developers," Spotify's chief legal officer Horacio Gutierrez said in a statement.'Apple is a gatekeeper'The decision comes after an e-book and audiobook distributor filed a similar complaint against Apple in March 2020, while Epic Games — which is already locking horns with Apple in a U.S. legal battle — filed an antitrust complaint against the iPhone maker with the European Commission earlier this year.At the press conference, Vestager stressed that app stores play a central role in today's digital economy."(Apple) not only controls the only access to apps on Apple devices, it also offers a music streaming service, Apple Music, that competes with other apps available in the Apple App Store, such as Spotify or Deezer," Vestager said.She added that App Store rules are a concern for many app developers, "because they depend on Apple App Store as a gatekeeper to access users of Apple's iPhones and iPads.""This significant market power cannot go unchecked as the conditions of access to the Apple App Store are key for the success of app developers," Vestager said.The commission is also looking at Apple Pay, but Vestager did not say when this probe would be concluded.Legal battlesThis is not the first investigation that the European Commission has brought against Apple. The commission decided in September to take Apple and the Irish government to the highest court in the European Union for what Brussels deems unfair taxation practices.The EU ruled in 2016 that Apple had to repay 13 billion euros ($15.7 billion) in unpaid taxes to the Irish government, after the latter granted "undue tax benefits." Apple and the Irish government have contested the decision and the case is still in court.VIDEO8:2408:24Why the EU is getting tough on Big TechCNBC ReportsHoping to overcome long legal battles and make its markets fairer, the European Union is working on new regulation that could ultimately impact many of the U.S. tech giants.The Digital Markets Act is likely to end what's known as self-preferencing — when, for instance, app search results in an Apple product prioritize those developed by the tech giant. The idea is to give smaller app developers the same chance of being found and chosen by consumers.The legislation is still being discussed by European lawmakers. But apart from enforcing practical changes, it will also have the power to fine companies up to 10% of their worldwide annual turnover.

2021/05/04, In this article6088-HKAAPLIf you bought a computer or a phone in the last five years, you know what a dongle is. They connect headphones to charging ports, laptops to TVs or card readers, and so on. Today, it's hard to do many everyday tech tasks without them, which makes dongles a big business. That's in large part due to Apple, which removed its headphone jack from the iPhone lineup and switched almost entirely to USB-C (now Thunderbolt 3) ports on its computers in 2016.Apple, Belkin and other accessory companies have created a huge market for these dongles, which is estimated by Facts and Factors to bring in more than $25 billion by 2027. But with wireless tech constantly on the heels of adapters like these, companies that once made most of their money on dongles – Belkin CEO Steve Malony said around 70% of its business was once made from dongles – are investing in the future of device connections.Watch the video to learn more.

2021/04/29, Tim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., speaks with attendees after an event in Cupertino, California, U.S., on Tuesday, Sept. 10, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple thumped Wall Street expectations for the quarter, earning several hikes in price targets from some major analysts and causing some of the more bearish observers to soften their stance.The consumer tech company beat revenue expectations across the board for the opening months of the year and reported a wider-than-expected gross margin. The company also raised its dividend and authorized an even bigger stock buyback program.However, on the downside, Apple did not reinstate guidance for the current quarter.Here's what top analysts had to say after the report.

2021/04/29, A large advertisement on the LED screen outside the apple store is to warm up the iPhone 12 series, which is officially on sale on the 23rd. Shanghai, China, October 21, 2020.Barcroft Media | Getty ImagesCNBC's Jim Cramer said Thursday he was blown away by Apple's latest quarterly earnings report, adding he thought the more than 2% premarket stock increase was too muted.Shortly after the opening bell on Wall Street, Apple shares were up only fractionally and later even gave up those gains. The stock closed Thursday's session basically flat at $133.48 per share. "Apple, I think, people are misjudging entirely. I think Apple was an extraordinary share take. I think Apple was an amazing move in services," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street.""Goldman, the bear, had to throw in the towel" after Apple's results, the "Mad Money" host said, in reference to Goldman Sachs Apple analyst Rod Hall upgrading the stock to neutral, about a year after downgrading it to a sell.

2021/04/29, In this articleAAPLVIDEO4:0304:03Apple just had a blowout quarter — Here's what pros are watching nowTrading NationWall Street can't get enough of Apple's blowout quarter.The iPhone giant reported a 54% increase in sales and authorized a $90 billion share buyback in its fiscal second-quarter earnings report, though did not issue official guidance for the upcoming quarter.Market analysts were nevertheless impressed. Here's what four of them told CNBC after the report:Dan Ives, senior equity research analyst for technology at Wedbush Securities, said this could be a "historic year" for Apple:"If you looked up 'blowout earnings' in the dictionary, it would be Apple's March quarter. I mean, this is what I almost say is the dream scenario for the bulls in terms of what you see on iPhones, services [and] of course on the buyback as well. … Many are skeptical about the supercycle. You look at this quarter. This [is] what I believe is the exclamation mark that the supercycle is alive and well. This looks like this is going to be Apple's historic year where they'll break 231 million iPhones. I think right now, this is the catalyst to get this to 175, $200. This is really, in my opinion, probably the best quarter I've seen from Apple in the last 18-24 months."Mike Santoli, CNBC's senior markets commentator, said one big risk to Apple is the "perception" of pulled-forward demand:"The company itself says it does not expect this kind of run rate for iPad and Mac. Now, phones, different story. We don't know if that's going to continue to play out. And then it's what multiple do you put on it? [A] $90 billion incremental stock buyback I think is pretty much in the zone. To me, it seems like a pretty stingy dividend increase, but they're really … emphasizing the buyback. So, the story is intact, it's always just been about how far do we extrapolate this type of performance? We already are paying 29 times currently expected earnings. How much can those earnings go up to bolster that valuation?"CEO of Superhuman and Apple shareholder Rahul Vohra saw several positive catalysts for the company:"I actually look more towards the Mac and the iPad businesses. We saw through 2020 and, as we all expected, Q2 as well, extremely strong growth in those businesses fueled primarily by remote work. And I think the question we're all asking is will this continue? I think we will continue to see these businesses grow in 2021. The new iMacs are jaw-droppingly beautiful. The new iPads are real laptop replacements. And remote work will keep these devices as well as iPhone in high demand. And actually, at Superhuman, we just completed a study that underlines all of this. It turns out that 51% of U.S. remote workers are now buying productivity tools out of their own pockets and a further 17% more still plan to do so."Gene Munster, managing partner at Loup Ventures, said Apple's valuation is still "at the lower end" considering the "transformative tech" it creates:"Some incredible growth years are still ahead of this company. Everything from hardware as a service — we talk about this. We refer to it as a 360 bundle, to be able to rent a Mac, an iPhone, your services all together. We think that's coming in the next couple of years. We're going to hear likely about mixed reality, those goggles at the developers' conference. That's part of the metaverse. That's a big opportunity. And then remains what they do around automotive. That's a, depending on how you look at the addressable market, multitrillion-dollar addressable market. So, I would say this: let's just take a quick step back. This was a good quarter. It was a great quarter. I don't know what the adjective is. It's probably as good of a quarter, as much upside, as I've seen in a decade from Apple. What I can say is that the naysayers will say it's not sustainable, and I understand that, but that has been a well-traveled theme around this and Apple year in, year out, delivers, and I think they'll continue. I'll leave with this thought: I have a prediction that Apple's going to be the top-performing FAANG for 2021. I am well behind Google right now — I think they're up 30-40%. Apple's just up fractionally. And I continue to stand behind that. I think that results [Wednesday], they will eventually get credit for it and as they start to step into some of these new growth curves."Disclaimer

2021/04/28, VIDEO4:0304:03Apple just had a blowout quarter — Here's what pros are watching nowTrading NationApple reported a blowout quarter on Wednesday, announcing companywide sales up 54% higher than last year, and significantly stronger profits than Wall Street expected.  Apple stock rose over 4% at one point in extended trading.  Apple reported double-digit growth in every single one of its product categories, and its most important product line, the iPhone, was up 65.5% from last year. Its Mac and iPad sales did better, with its computers up 70.1% and iPad sales growing nearly 79% on an annual basis. Apple said it would increase its dividend by 7% to $0.22 per share and authorized $90 billion in share buybacks, which is significantly higher than last year's $50 billion outlay and 2019's $75 billion.  Here's how Apple did versus Refinitiv estimates: EPS: $1.40 vs. $0.99 estimatedRevenue: $89.58 billion vs. $77.36 billion estimated, up 53.7% year-over-year iPhone revenue: $47.94 billion vs. $41.43 billion estimated, up 65.5% year-over-year Services revenue: $16.90 billion vs. $15.57 billion estimated, up 26.7% year over year Other Products revenue: $7.83 billion vs. $7.79 billion estimated, up 24% year-over-year Mac revenue: $9.10 billion vs. $6.86 billion estimated, up 70.1% year-over-year iPad revenue: $7.80 billion vs. $5.58 billion estimated, up 78.9% year-over-year Gross margin: 42.5% vs. 39.8% estimated Apple did not issue official guidance for what it expects in the quarter ending in June. It hasn't provided revenue guidance since the start of the pandemic, citing uncertainty. This is Apple's second quarter in a row with double-digit growth in all product categories. Apple CFO Luca Maestri told analysts that the company expects June quarter revenue to rise by double digits year-over-year, although it faces some supply shortages due to the worldwide chip shortage.Apple has said in the past months that its business has been boosted by the pandemic as consumers and businesses bought computers to work and entertain themselves while at home. But Apple's strong results in the quarter suggest that the trend may persist as more economies open up.  Or, as Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a statement: "This quarter reflects both the enduring ways our products have helped our users meet this moment in their own lives, as well as the optimism consumers seem to feel about better days ahead for all of us." Mac sales were up 70%, and Cook said that the result was "fueled by" the company's introduction of its Mac laptops that used its own M1 chips for longer battery life, instead of processors sold by Intel. iPad sales were up nearly 79% year-over-year. Neither of those results include iPad Pro or iMac models the company announced in March, which are expected to drive additional demand.  "We're seeing strong first-time buyers on the Mac … it continues to run just south of 50%," Cook told CNBC's Josh Lipton. "And, in China, it's even higher than that … it's more around two-thirds. And that speaks to people preferring to work on the Mac." Apple's iPhone also reported strong results this quarter, quelling fears that the current annual cycle could slow down. Last year, Apple released iPhones with a new exterior design and 5G support, which many investors believed could prompt a major upgrade cycle, which this quarter's results indicate.  In greater China, which includes the mainland, Hong Kong, and Taiwan, Apple's revenue increased over 87% year-over-year to $17.73 billion, although the comparison is to a quarter last year in which China was largely shut down in the early days of the pandemic. Every other geographical category, including the Americas and Europe, were also up on an annual basis.  Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsApple's high-margin services business, including iCloud, App Store, and subscriptions like Apple Music, also showed 26.7% growth. One metric that Apple uses to show the growth in services is the number of subscriptions it has, which not only include its own subscriptions like Apple One, but also subscriptions through its App Store."We now have over 660 million paid subscriptions across the services on the platform, and that's up 40 million from the previous quarter, which is an acceleration from 35 million," Cook told CNBC.However, Apple's App Store has been challenged by lawmakers and companies that say it costs too much and has too much power. A closely-watched trial with Fortnite maker Epic Games over App Store policies kicks off next week."The App Store has been an economic miracle. Last year, the estimates are that there was over a half a trillion dollars of economic activity because of the store. And, so, this has been just an economic gamechanger for not only the United States, but several countries around the world. And, we're going to go in and tell our story. And we'll see where it goes. But, we're confident," Cook told CNBC.Apple's gross margin was also unusually elevated for the company. Most quarters, it tends to be in the 38% to 39% range, but in the quarter ending in March, Apple reported 42.5% margins. 

2021/04/28, In this articleAAPLApple CEO Tim Cook delivers the keynote address during the 2020 Apple Worldwide Developers Conference at Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, California, June 22, 2020.Brooks Kraft | Apple Inc. via ReutersApple's 38% gross margin was about as certain as death and taxes. Until recently.In its quarterly earnings report on Wednesday, Apple said that its gross margin — the percentage of revenue left after accounting for the cost of goods sold — jumped to 42.5%. In the prior period, the figure was 40%.It's the highest margin for Apple since 2012, when the company was less than half its current size. Between 2013 and 2020, the number hovered between 37% and 39%, more often than not sitting right at 38%, according to FactSet.Apple, the most valuable company in the U.S., is squeezing more profit out of its business by getting buyers of its iPhones and iPads to spend more money on services like iTunes, Apple Music, Apple Pay and App Store purchases. In reporting better-than-expected sales and earnings figures for the quarter, Apple said the services business jumped 27% from a year earlier, while its services gross margin expanded to 70% from 65% last year at this time and 64% a year before that.VIDEO2:4902:49Apple's Podcast subscription escalates battle with Spotify, says WSJ's Joanna SternTechCheckCanaccord Genuity analysts said in a report last week that Apple should generate higher margins as users of its 1.65 billion active devices snap up add-on software products."This growing base should consume increasing Apple services, helping drive faster growth for this high-margin business than the overall hardware business," wrote the analysts, who recommend buying the stock.Apple, which maintains a notoriously strong grip over its supply chain, is also getting stronger profits from its hardware sales. Its product margin jumped to 36% in the period from 30% a year earlier.At least some of that increase comes from price hikes. The iPhone 12, which was announced in October, costs $100 more than the prior year's baseline model. Analysts at Wedbush said that average selling prices have also moved higher for the more expensive iPhone Pro and Pro Max versions.While iPhone sales move through cycles, software and services are more reliable and have allowed Apple to find avenues for growth regardless whether people are upgrading their devices in any particular period. This month, the company announced a podcast subscription and said it's redesigning its podcast app.Spotify, Apple's top rival in music and audio, followed this week by launching its own podcast subscription service. Spotify isn't taking a subscription revenue cut for the next two years as it tries to lure content developers, and said creators will receive 100% of their sales, excluding payment transaction fees. Starting in 2023, the company will charge a 5% fee for the tool. Apple takes a 30% cut the first year and will then drop the fee to 15% in the second year.Apple shares rose as much as 3.6% in extended trading to $138.41 after the earnings report. The stock is about flat this year as of the close.WATCH: Loup Ventures' Gene Munster digs into Big Tech earningsVIDEO4:0604:06Loup Ventures' Gene Munster digs into Big Tech earningsFast Money

2021/04/29, In this articleAAPLTim Cook, CEO of Apple laughs while Lana Del Rey (with iPad) takes a photo during a launch event at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on October 30, 2018 in New York City.Stephanie Keith | Getty ImagesApple reported another blowout quarter Wednesday, showing 54% revenue growth and authorizing a mind-melting $90 billion share buyback.But while we usually spend each quarter talking about the performance of Apple's iPhone and Services segments, it's impossible to ignore the insane growth the company reported for Mac computers and iPads.Apple isn't just in the middle of a new iPhone supercycle of sales. It's in the middle of a supercycle for everything.Just take a look at the Mac and iPad segments' performance during Apple's fiscal second quarter:Mac revenue: $9.10 billion, up 70.1% year over year iPad revenue: $7.80 billion, up 78.9% year over year Those are just wild numbers for two product categories that had been languishing for the last few years. Before 2020, the story behind the Mac was that Apple had put its PC development on the back burner in favor of focusing on its profit engine: the iPhone.But that started to change last year with the perfect storm for Apple's Mac and iPad sales growth: the launch of Apple's own computer chip, the M1, and the spike in demand for devices to help people work from home.While the pandemic part of the equation is obvious, Apple also said the M1 played a role in the sales boom. On the company's earnings call Wednesday, CEO Tim Cook credited the M1 chip for fueling the growth, especially after Apple proved the chip can perform just as well as or better than the Intel chips it used to use for computers.Apple also just added the M1 to its new iPad Pro model, which goes on sale Friday and ships in May. That gives the iPad the same power as the Mac. Apple executives told TechCrunch this week that they hope adding all that power to the iPad will spur a new wave of software development to make the device much more useful for productivity tasks. If that works, the iPad Pro will be a viable alternative for people who want to use a tablet instead of a traditional laptop.And there are more reasons to be optimistic about the Mac later this year, when Apple will reportedly redesign its Mac laptops and potentially use the next version of its M-series chip in them.There's just one caveat to all this optimism around the Mac and iPad: the chip shortage.Cook and his team admitted on the earnings call Wednesday that there could be supply constraints for some components needed for Apple's gadgets. But they sounded optimistic they'll be able to work through the issues.And don't forget: Cook made his name in the business world as a supply chain and logistics genius.VIDEO4:0304:03Apple just had a blowout quarter — Here's what pros are watching nowTrading Nation

2021/04/28, In this articleAAPLNEW YORK, NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 20: Apple CEO Tim Cook greets customers at the grand reopening of Apple's flagship Apple Fifth Avenue retail store on September 20, 2019 in New York City.Taylor Hill | WireImage | Getty ImagesAfter a shockingly strong quarter in which Apple revenue grew 54% to sales of nearly $90 billion, with double-digit growth in every product category, Wall Street is already asking if Apple can keep it up through the rest of the year.While Apple hasn't provided official future guidance since the start of the pandemic, CFO Luca Maestri said that Apple would again grow in the quarter ending this June, by "strong double digits."But there were some caveats.It turns out Apple is dealing with the same microchip shortage that has snarled companies and industries around the world, despite its legendary operations group, built by CEO Tim Cook, which locks important components in for years at competitive prices.Apple said on Wednesday that it expected its third-quarter sales to be about $3 billion to $4 billion less than it could be if it didn't have supply issues, primarily for its iPad tablets and Mac laptops and desktops. (Analysts polled before Wednesday's earnings expect Apple to report about $70 billion in sales next quarter.)Cook said Apple's issue was mainly in "legacy node" chips which use older manufacturing methods, as compared to the bleeding-edge high-performance chips that power the heart of its gadgets.Cook didn't specify which parts were in short supply, but Apple buys a lot of legacy node chips for functions transmitting data to displays, delivering power to cameras, decoding audio, and managing batteries."Most of our issue is on licensing those legacy nodes, there are many different people not only in the same industry, but across other industries that are using legacy nodes," Cook said, adding that he didn't know specifically how much demand for production capacity there might be from competitors and other industries.Ultimately, Apple struck an optimistic note, especially compared to companies in other industries like autos which have been warning about chip shortages for months. For example, Ford said on Wednesday that it would lose half of its second-quarter production due to the microchip shortage.Apple emphasized that part of the reason that it's forecasting supply shortages in the current quarter is because of demand. iPad sales were up 79% and Mac sales up 70% in the most recent quarter, so there's clearly a lot of people who want to buy them."For Mac, for example if you put it into context, the last three quarters of Mac have been the best three-quarters ever in this history of the product, right?" Maestri said.If there is a company that is built to weather supply chain challenges related to chips, it is Apple, which buys massive amounts of components each year and is an important enough client to remain a priority for chip manufacturers and designers.In fact, one reason for Apple's blowout second quarter is that it did not face any supply shortages during the period, Cook said, attributing it to the company's supply chain expertise."How are we able to do that? You wind up collapsing all of your buffers and offsets. And that happens all the way through the supply chain. So that enables you to go a bit higher than what we were expecting to sell when we went into the quarter."VIDEO4:0304:03Apple just had a blowout quarter — Here's what pros are watching nowTrading Nation

2021/04/27, In this articleAAPLTile Sticker and Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | CNBCApple's $29 AirTag lost item tracker begins shipping on April 30. I walked through what it's like last week, but I recently bought a similar tracker from Tile.Tile has been in the lost item tracking business for several years, and now counts Apple as its closest competitor.I took both devices for a test drive to show you how they differ and to help explain why Tile is so upset that Apple is moving in on its turf.VIDEO3:4303:43Apple announces lost item tracker called AirTagNews VideosTile trackers aren't new. They've been around for years and have been leading the market. Owners seem to love them. They're convenient because you can attach them to bags, keys or other items, and then see where they are on a map on your phone.Like AirTag, Tile trackers don't use GPS. Instead, they rely on a network of other Tile devices that communicate with each other over Bluetooth. So, the more Tile devices there are out there, the greater your chances that someone with a Tile passes by yours and alerts your phone of your lost item's location. Tile has sold more than 35 million devices, not including products from more than 30 partners with its technology built-in, which make up its network that spans 195 countries.Apple's AirTag is similar, except it taps into not only other AirTags but also Apple's existing network of iPhones and Macs, which is nearing a billion devices. That gives Apple an advantage over Tile from the get-go, since it has a bigger network at launch, even if lots of people don't buy an AirTag.Tile has a bunch of tracker sizes and shapes.TileHere are a few of the things I like about Tile that you don't get with Apple AirTag:There's a button on it you can press to ring your phone, in case you can't find it around the house.There are several sizes and shapes. I bought a $25 Tile Sticker that's about the size of a quarter, a hair smaller than an AirTag. You can stick it to anything. AirTag requires a keychain or a separate holder.Speaking of sizes, Tile sells a $29.99 "Slim" model that looks like a credit card and slips into a wallet. The Slim and Sticker models have up to three years of battery life, which is longer than the one year you get from Apple. But, the Pro and Mate versions of the Tile tags — the Pro has a louder speaker and longer Bluetooth range than the Mate — have user-replaceable batteries, which last a year, like AirTag.Tile has a bunch of colors, including limited-edition options with patterns that you might like if you don't want a white and silver AirTag that can only be customized with a few letters or an emoji.Tile works with Android and iPhone, so you can still track stuff even if you don't use an iPhone.Tile's tracking tech is built into other products, from earbuds to laptops and retainer cases.But the biggest difference is the experience. AirTag is a lot more seamless since you just pull the battery tag and click "connect" on your iPhone.Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | AppleWith Tile, you need to download a separate app, instead of using Apple's Find My, which comes pre-installed on all of its devices, then give the app permission to use your location twice during setup. It's something Tile has complained to Congress about because the company thinks Apple's own product has the advantage here.You have to grant the Tile app access to your location. AirTags also use it, but you don't do the same process.Todd Haselton | CNBCAnd while Apple's Find My network is open to other companies that want to support it, it's not in Tile's best interest to do so.Tile, for example, lets you find lost devices nearby and far away for free. But its subscription services, including Premium ($2.99/month or $29.99 a year) and Premium Protect ($99.99 a year), rely on its network, not Apple's. That's why it probably isn't as excited to launch devices that support Apple Find My as companies that aren't in the tracking space at all.The Premium plan can help you get smart alerts if you leave something behind, includes a free battery replacement, lets you share a tracker's location with friends, shows a 30-day location history and more. Premium Protect includes those features and offers up to a $1,000 item reimbursement if you can't find it, so it's kind of like an insurance program for your stuff.Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | AppleAirTag owners who use an iPhone 11 or iPhone 12 model also get another advantage from AirTag. Those phones can locate the AirTag right down to its exact location using an ultra-wideband signal. You just hold up your phone and it points you in which direction to walk to find your lost item. Tile doesn't have access to this part of the iPhone, even though it developed support for its trackers, so it can't offer this feature. It's one of the complaints the company has had with Apple rolling out its own tracking product and it brought this up just last week with Congress.Another differentiator: AirTag also has privacy controls. It will alert you if someone else's AirTag seems to be with you, instead of with them, for too long. That might help prevent people from using them to track you.Tile Sticker and Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | CNBCIt's up to you which one to buy. I like the sticker and form factors of Tile and that I can ring my phone by pressing a button on it. It also works on Android, which is a big benefit. Apple's AirTag is a hair faster to set up, has ultra-wideband, and it has a bigger network that might make it easier to find your lost device since there are more people with iPhones and Macs than Tile trackers.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/04/28, VIDEO3:0503:05These Apple stock alternatives look like buys, traders sayTrading NationApple is in the limelight Wednesday afternoon following its earnings announcement.The iPhone maker reported a 54% increase in sales in its March-ended quarter and profit of $1.40 a share, well above the 99 cents consensus. The shares were up 2% in extended trading.  But, for an investor who wants to look beyond Apple, there are plenty of stocks that benefit from the mega-cap tech company's halo effect. CNBC's "Trading Nation" asked two traders for their top picks in Apple's ecosystem."I really think it's Qualcomm here," Matt Maley, chief market strategist at Miller Tabak, said on Wednesday. "People have been worried in the last few months. [Reports indicated] that Apple may be manufacturing its own chips, and of course Qualcomm is a huge supplier of chips to Apple for their iPhones. However, after the stock has come down a bit, about 30%, it's kind of worked that off, all that has been priced in."Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAfter that pullback, the stock looks to be in an attractive technical position, Maley said."It's been bouncing along its 200-day moving average so that's held good support and that's actually formed a nice what you would call an ascending triangle pattern," he said. Positive earnings are "going to give it another leg higher, a renewed leg of upward movement that I think has been missing for most of this year so I think this one could be a big surprise to the upside."Qualcomm after the bell reported a strong quarter with revenue 52% higher than a year ago. The chipmaker also forecast solid growth for handset shipments in 2021. The shares were up more than 5% in extended trading.Delano Saporu, founder of New Street Advisors, is instead making a bet on podcast demand with Spotify."We saw Spotify dropped after reporting earnings, subscription growth wasn't as strong as expected. I think if it keeps dropping then there may be support around the $240 range. It's going to be a great opportunity for investors to get in," Saporu said Wednesday.Spotify closed below $257 a share on Wednesday after falling 12% during the session. The company reported weaker-than-expected monthly active users for its March-ended quarter and also downgraded full-year expectations."Different companies are really vying for top content from top people and you saw what Spotify has done when they aggressively went after President Obama and Joe Rogan to get some of those deals. That's an area where, if they continue to do that and also emerging markets increase listenership and subscriptions that might be an opportunity for Spotify to go higher. I think it's going to be a continued battle but I'm definitely looking at Spotify closely," said Saporu.The shares are down 18% this year and have tumbled 34% from a February peak.Disclaimer

2021/04/26, In this articleAAPLiPhone 12 Pro MaxTodd Haselton | CNBCApple released iOS 14.5, its big new software update for iPhones, on Monday.The update adds a lot of new features, such as updates to Siri, Podcasts, Apple News and support for the latest game console controllers.But the one that's been grabbing headlines is Apple's new privacy change, which gives users more transparency and control over apps that want to track them for advertising. Facebook in particular has been worried about the privacy change, as it could limit its ability to effectively target ads to iPhone users.There are lots of other features, though. Here's an overview of what's new in iOS 14.5.Apps have a harder time tracking youIOS 14.5 includes the App Tracking Transparency framework, which is expected to have major implications for the way mobile advertising operates.You'll see a pop-up when you open an app that wants to access that your unique device ID for advertisers. That pop-up will ask if you want to be tracked and will show why the app wants you to opt in. For instance, an app might say you'll get a better ad experience if you allow tracking.Many companies that rely on online advertising have said the privacy change will reduce the effectiveness and profitability of targeted ads. Facebook has waged a campaign against the change and appears set to lose revenue as a result of it. But it's not clear just how much. Analysts at MKM Partners said they believed in the second half of last year that Apple's changes would have more impact but as of last week expected a "fairly fleeting and minimal fundamental impact on the ecosystem."Apple Watch can unlock your iPhone when you're wearing a maskUnlocking my iPhone with my Apple Watch using iOS 14.5.Todd Haselton | CNBCApple added this feature since its latest phones rely on Face ID, which doesn't work when you have a mask on. Now, you can set up your Apple Watch to unlock your iPhone when you're wearing a mask. Here's how to set it up:Open Settings on your iPhone.Tap Face ID & Passcode.Enter in your iPhone's passcode.Scroll down to "Unlock with Apple Watch."Toggle the button next to your Apple Watch so that it's on.Siri has new voicesApple's Siri voice assistant no longer defaults to a female voice when you set up your iPhone. Instead, you'll be prompted to choose from one of four default voices when you boot up your new iPhone. It includes two new Black American voices in English, male and female, and a new male voice.Open Settings on your iPhone.Tap Siri and Search.Choose Siri Voice.Select "American"Pick one of the three new voice choices. (The fourth option is the original Siri voice.)Siri can announce calls through AirPodsApple AirPods ProTodd Haselton | CNBCSiri will also now announce calls through AirPods or CarPlay while driving and let you speak to answer the call. This builds on an existing feature, which lets Siri read you your text messages through AirPods. You can set this up by doing this:Open Settings on your iPhone.Tap Siri & Search.Tap "Announce Calls."Turn on "Headphones Only" or "Headphones & Car."Siri can learn to play music from Spotify and other servicesSiri will start to learn the music or podcast service you use most often and play your requests from that service. You still can't change the default from say, Apple Music to Spotify, but eventually, if you keep asking Siri to play music from Spotify with a command like, "Hey Siri, play The Strokes on Spotify," it'll start to learn to play it there so you don't have to say the "... on Spotify" part.Podcasts and NewsApple PodcastSource: Apple Inc.Apple is also making changes to its Podcast and Apple News apps. Podcasts, which in May will support subscriptions to channels you want to pay for, has new cover art similar to Apple Music for the episodes you're listening to. It also has new Saved Episodes for listening later, new preferences for offline and syncing across devices such as Mac and iPad, so you can access downloaded episodes on other devices, and improved search functions.Apple News has improved search, a redesigned Apple News+ tab that helps you manage magazines you've downloaded, and a new article search function for finding specific stories.Xbox Series S/X and PlayStation 5 controller supportMicrosoft's Xbox Series X.Jordan Novet | CNBCIOS 14.5 brings Bluetooth support for new Microsoft Xbox Series S/X and Sony PlayStation 5 controllers, which didn't previously work with iPhone. This means people with the new systems can play games with controller support on their iPhones and iPads. It's especially useful if you're playing Microsoft's Xbox Remote Play or its new Xbox Cloud Gaming service, the latter of which just started rolling out in beta on April 19.VIDEO2:1002:10Facebook battles Apple over user privacy features in iOS updateTech

2021/04/29, A customer enters Comerica Inc. Bank headquarters in Dallas, Texas.Cooper Neill | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2021/04/26, In this articleAAPLTim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple, speaks at the 2019 Dreamforce conference in San Francisco on November 19, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple announced plans Monday to open a new campus in the Raleigh, North Carolina, area.Apple will spend over $1 billion on the campus, and it will employ 3,000 people working on technology including software engineering and machine learning.The campus is a sign of Apple's continued expansion beyond its headquarters in Cupertino, California, where most of its engineering has been based. Apple's $1 billion campus in Austin, Texas, is expected to open next year.Apple's expansion will be located in North Carolina's Research Triangle area, which gets its name from nearby North Carolina State University, Duke University and the University of North Carolina. Apple CEO Tim Cook and COO Jeff Williams have MBAs from Duke. Apple senior vice president Eddy Cue, who is in charge of the company's online services, graduated from Duke.VIDEO2:5602:56Apple unveils new $430 billlion U.S. investment planSquawk on the Street"As a North-Carolina native, I'm thrilled Apple is expanding and creating new long-term job opportunities in the community I grew up in," Williams said in a statement.Apple joins other Silicon Valley technology companies that are expanding outside the Bay Area to gain access to a wider pool of engineering talent and in response to high housing prices and other costs of living in the region.For example, Oracle announced plans last year to move its headquarters to Austin, Texas. Mountain View-based Google is spending $1 billion on a new campus in New York City and is redeveloping a former shopping mall in Los Angeles. Amazon's second headquarters in Arlington, Virginia, has 1,600 employees out of a planned 25,000.One of two Apple campuses in Austin. Texas' Apple operations are second only to the Cupertino/Bay Area in California. Apple employs more than 8,000 people in the Lone Star State.Source: AppleApple also said Monday it was rapidly expanding in other cities where it has engineering operations. It plans to employ 5,000 people in San Diego, 3,000 people in Culver City in Los Angeles, and 700 in Boulder, Colorado, by 2026. Apple also said it employs 1,000 people in Seattle, and plans to double that. In total, Apple said it plans to add 20,000 jobs in the U.S. over the next five years.Still, Apple will continue to be based in Silicon Valley, where it has about 25,000 employees, including 12,000 employees in its loop-shaped headquarters. Apple said last year it has 147,000 full-time employees, including retail workers.

2021/04/29, Silhouette of a mobile user seen next to a screen projection of the Apple logo in this picture illustration taken March 28, 2018.Dado Ruvic | ReutersApple's strong performance over the last two quarters has forced Goldman Sachs to back away from its bear case on the stock.The tech giant on Wednesday reported blowout results for its fiscal second quarter, with iPhone sales easily beating expectations and climbing more than 60% year over year. In response, Goldman analyst Rod Hall upgraded the stock to neutral from sell, saying that the strength of the flagship iPhone was undeniable.

2021/04/26, In this articleAAPLiOS 14 logo of the iOS mobile operating system is seen displayed on a mobile phone with an Apple logo in the background.Pavlo Gonchar | LightRocket | Getty ImagesLONDON — Apple has been accused of antitrust abuse in Germany as it prepares to roll out a new version of its iPhone software.A complaint was filed to Bundeskartellamt, Germany's competition regulator, on Monday. The news was first reported by The Financial Times and confirmed to CNBC by a Bundeskartellamt spokesperson.Apple's iOS 14.5 software — expected to be rolled out on Monday — will include a feature called ATT, or App Tracking Transparency. The feature will force app developers to ask users if they're happy to be tracked for advertising purposes and many iPhone owners are expected to say no.Companies that rely on online advertising, especially Facebook, have said that the privacy change will reduce the effectiveness and profitability of targeted ads and potentially roil the online advertising business.The complaint was made by ZAW, the German Advertising Federation, on behalf of the nine industry associations that it represents. The association's members include the likes of Facebook and media giant Axel Springer, which owns Insider and Bild.ZAW argues in the complaint that Apple's ATT feature abuses its market power and violates antitrust law."Through these unilaterally imposed measures, Apple effectively excludes all competitors from processing commercially relevant data in the Apple ecosystem," ZAW said in a press release. "At the same time, however, the group excludes its own (advertising) services from the planned changes and collects significant amounts of user data itself."Apple did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment. However, it has previously said the changes will bolster user privacy.In March, France Digitale, a French start-up lobby group, filed a complaint against Apple with the nation's privacy regulator, arguing that Apple's mobile operating system may be in breach of European Union rules.The campaign group argued that Apple may be collecting user data for ad tracking services without explicitly asking permission and it called on France's privacy regulator, the Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés to investigate. Specifically, it claimed that Apple has its "Personalized Ads" option on by default on iPhones with iOS 14 installed. Apple said these allegations were false.— Additional reporting by CNBC's Kif Leswing. 

2021/04/25, Apple CEO Tim Cook delivers the keynote address during the 2020 Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) at Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, California, June 22, 2020.Brooks Kraft | Apple, Inc. | via ReutersWall Street analysts are largely focusing on the iPhone ahead of Apple's second quarter earnings report on Wednesday after the bell.The tech giant has largely done well during the pandemic driven by high demand of products like the Mac and iPad. In addition, the company debuted several updated products last week.But now supply chain questions are emerging over the iPhone as well as sales in China.Shares of the company are only up 1.2% this year.Investors will also be watching to see if the company provides guidance, which it has declined to do since the coronavirus began. Buybacks and dividend hikes are other key catalysts to watch closely, according to analysts.Here's what analysts expect from the company's earnings report:

2021/04/28, In this article.DJI.SPX.IXICVIDEO4:3104:31DCLA's Sarat Sethi breaks down Apple and Facebook's big earnings beatsSquawk BoxThe S&P 500 closed at record levels on Thursday after blowout earnings results from two of the biggest tech companies in the world: Apple and Facebook.The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day up 239.98 points, or 0.7%, at 34,060.36. The S&P 500 advanced just under 0.7% to finish the day at 4,211.47, a new closing high.The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite, which began the day up 1%, underperformed with a gain of just over 0.2% to end the session at 14,082.55.Apple, which reported earnings yesterday afternoon, said that sales jumped 54% during the quarter, with each product category seeing double-digit growth. The company also said it would increase its dividend by 7%, and authorized $90 billion in share buybacks. Still, Apple shares ended the day just under the flatline."The primary market trend remains positive," said Keith Lerner, chief market strategist at Truist. "But we expect a choppier environment as tensions are set to persist between better economic growth and earnings prospects versus the potential for higher taxes and rising interest rates as the economy normalizes," he added.Thursday marks President Joe Biden's 100th day in office. On Wednesday evening, he made his first address to a joint session of Congress where he pushed his so-far popular agenda, which includes a $2 trillion infrastructure plan as well as a freshly unveiled, $1.8 trillion plan for families, children and students.Thursday is also the busiest day of the quarterly earnings season, with roughly 11% of the S&P 500 slated to provide quarterly updates.McDonald's published its results before the opening bell and told investors that its sales have finally topped pre-pandemic levels. The Dow component also raised its outlook for systemwide sales growth. The stock added 1.2% at the close.Caterpillar, which also reported on Thursday, lost 2% while Merck dropped 4.4% following disappointing results. Amazon issued its first-quarter results shortly after market close. The e-commerce giant surpassed analysts' expectations on earnings and revenue.Gilead Sciences, Twitter, U.S. Steel and Western Digital will also post results after the bell.Facebook's revenue jumped 48%, driven by higher-priced ads, sending its stock up 7.3% and to a record. Qualcomm shares added 4.4% after reporting a 52% jump in revenue.Economic data released Thursday gave investors an update on the progress of the economic recovery.VIDEO2:2502:25Here's a possible timeline for Fed tapering, according to Wall StreetSquawk BoxFirst-quarter GDP hit an annualized rate of 6.4%, according to a report published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, a sign that the U.S. economy began 2021 with an acceleration of commercial activity. Outside of the reopening-fueled third-quarter surge last year, it was the best period for GDP since the third quarter of 2003.The Labor Department, meanwhile, reported that initial jobless claims last week totaled 553,000, just above the 528,000 estimate issued by Dow Jones.The Federal Reserve said Wednesday that it would hold interest rates near zero. The S&P slid from its high after Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said during a press conference following the Federal Open Market Committee's decision that there are some signs of froth in the market."Rates remain unchanged for now and, despite improving economic data, taper talk remained off the table at today's Federal Reserve meeting," said Bethany Payne, portfolio manager at Janus Henderson."As vaccination rates accelerate, employment strengthens, and expansive fiscal policy adds further support to household and business incomes, investors are now looking for signs of whether the central bank safety net could be withdrawn sooner than expected," she added.Become a smarter investor with CNBC Pro. Get stock picks, analyst calls, exclusive interviews and access to CNBC TV. Sign up to start a free trial today

2021/04/28, In this articleFBFacebook Chairman and CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies at a House Financial Services Committee hearing in Washington, October 23, 2019.Erin Scott | ReutersMark Zuckerberg spent the majority of Facebook's Wednesday earnings call outlining the company's e-commerce strategy, which will be crucial to how the social media company grows its ad business in the wake of one of the biggest changes to mobile ad targeting.The company's most popular e-commerce offering today is Marketplace, where users can buy and sell goods from one another directly through Facebook. Zuckerberg said that Marketplace now counts more than 1 billion monthly users.Zuckerberg also talked about Facebook Shops and Instagram Shops, two features launched last year where brands can upload their catalogs and sell their products directly on the social networks. He also alluded to Creator Shops, a feature he announced earlier this week that will allow Instagram creators to enable e-commerce on their profiles.Zuckerberg's comments on Wednesday were his first to analysts since Apple on Monday rolled out iOS 14.5, an update to the iPhone and iPad operating systems that will enable users to pick which apps are allowed to track their activity on their devices.For Facebook, tracking user activity has been critical to measuring how effective personalized ads are. The company has relied on a metric known as view-through conversions, which measures how many users saw an ad but did not immediately click on it, then later made a purchase related to that ad. But Apple's change creates uncertainty. Nobody knows how many iPhone users will allow the social media company to keep tracking their activity beyond Facebook. That's where these e-commerce products come in. If Facebook can sell more products through its own apps, it's not so dependent on cross-site user tracking. Here's how this would work in theory:An advertiser could pay to run an ad for a product, such as sneakers, to Instagram users who follow creators whose content is focused on sneakers. A user could click on the ad and be taken to the brand's Instagram Shop, where they could pay for the advertised sneakers directly within the Facebook-owned app. In this scenario, the advertiser reaches their intended target, the user buys the item directly on Instagram, and Facebook is able to continue to prove the effectiveness of its ads.Facebook is not getting into commerce because it wants to compete with the likes of Amazon or Walmart. In most cases, Facebook only charges a 5% fee that covers things like taxes and payment processing. The point isn't to make money from sales but from advertisements that promote those products.Indeed, although Facebook has groaned and griped for months about Apple's iOS 14.5 changes, CFO David Wehner on Wednesday told analysts "the impact on our own business we think will be manageable."Investors seem to be buying that claim. The market sent Facebook stock up more than 6% after hours after the company smashed expectations on revenue and earnings. VIDEO2:1002:10Facebook battles Apple over user privacy features in iOS updateTech

2021/04/28, In this articleAAPLEBAYFFBQCOMEBay Inc. signage is displayed at the entrance to the company's headquarters in San Jose, Calif.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines after the bell on Wednesday:Apple — The technology giant's stock ticked up 2.9% after the company reported fiscal second-quarter results that surpassed analyst expectations. Apple logged earnings per share of $1.40 on revenue of $89.58 billion. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of 99 cents on revenue of $77.36 billion.Qualcomm — Shares of the chipmaker popped 5.4% after the company reported better-than-expected results for its second quarter. Qualcomm reported earnings per share of $1.90 on revenue of $7.93 billion. Analysts polled by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of $1.67 on revenue of $7.62 billion.Facebook — Shares of the social titan giant rose 5.4% after the company posted first-quarter results that topped analyst expectations. Facebook posted earnings per share of $3.30 on revenue of $26.17 billion. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv predicted earnings per share of $2.37 on revenue of $23.67 billion.Ford — Ford shares slipped 3.1% as traders weighed the automaker's latest quarterly report. Ford logged earnings per share of 89 cents on revenue of $33.55 billion. Analysts polled by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of 21 cents on revenue of $32.23 billion. However, the company also maintained its full year pretax profit guidance, which includes an adverse impact of about $2.5 billion due to a global chip shortage. eBay — Shares of the e-commerce giant dipped 5.4% after a disappointing second-quarter guidance eclipsed better-than-expected results for the previous quarter. EBay said it expects second-quarter earnings per share to range between 91 cents and 96 cents. Analysts polled by FactSet expected guidance of $1 per share. 

2021/04/21, Tim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple, speaks at the 2019 Dreamforce conference in San Francisco on November 19, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesSome app makers who rely on mobile distribution from Apple and Google are scared of how much power the tech giants have over their businesses, according to congressional testimony delivered Wednesday."We're all afraid," Match Group Chief Legal Officer Jared Sine told Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., the chair of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust, at a hearing.The hearing brought together representatives from Apple and Google and several of their most outspoken critics, including Match Group, which owns dating site Tinder; Tile, which makes devices that help users find lost objects and faces new competition from Apple's AirTag technology, and streaming music service Spotify.The hearing comes as lawmakers on both sides of the aisle are working on updates to the antitrust laws that could better account for the power a few tech giants hold over many digital markets. That includes the ability of platforms such as Apple and Google to manage the main distribution platform for apps while increasingly hawking their own competing products.Throughout the hearing, the app makers expressed fear over how easily either company could undercut their businesses by making small changes to their app store rules. They also complained of high fees for in-app purchases and unclear enforcement of standards.Allegations of threatsMultiple executives accused Apple and Google of threatening their businesses.Sine said Google called Match Group on Tuesday night after his testimony became public to ask why his testimony differed from the company's comments in their latest earnings call.On the earnings call, Match executives had said they believed they were having productive conversations about Google's 30% in-app payment fee through its Google Play store. But in testimony, Match complained that Google had made "false pretenses of an open platform" and complained about its "monopoly power."Wilson White, Google's senior director of public policy and government relations, said it sounded like employees working in Google's business development team reached out to ask an "honest question." White said he didn't view it as a threat "and we would never threaten our partners" because Google needs app developers to use its app store in order for it to be successful.Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., said the call was "potentially actionable."Senator Richard Blumenthal, D-CT, speaks during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the January 6th insurrection, in the Hart Senate Office Building on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, March 2, 2021.Graeme Jennings | Pool via ReutersKlobuchar said she planned to look into the matter further.Spotify Chief Legal Officer Horacio Gutierrez said he could think of "at least four clear examples of threats and retaliation" from Apple after Spotify decided to speak out about alleged anticompetitive behavior and Apple's fees for developers on digital products purchased through its platform. That included threats of removing Spotify's app, refusing to promote it, or waiting for months for minor app updates to be approved, he said."They've basically thrown the book at us in order to make it hard for us to continue to sustain our decision to speak up," he said.Fees and rival productsMany app makers have complained about the fees gatekeepers charge for in-app purchases for digital services.Gutierrez complained of what he called Apple's "gag order" over how Spotify can communicate with its own users about how to upgrade to its paid version.For instance, Spotify allows customers to upgrade only outside of its iOS app in order to avoid Apple's 15% to 30% commission fee on digital services purchased through its platform. But because Spotify doesn't sell the paid service through its iOS app, Apple also doesn't let the app maker talk about upgrades with customers through the app — instead, users have to upgrade through a web browser on a PC or another method.At the same time, Apple operates a competing service, Apple Music, which has no such restrictions. Gutierrez said this gives Apple's version an unfair advantage.Representatives from Apple and Google both told lawmakers that their fees for developers are meant to cover the costs that go into distributing apps through their platforms and securing them appropriately. Apple Chief Compliance Officer Kyle Andeer compared the services offered on the App Store today to the cumbersome and expensive process app makers had to pursue to distribute their apps before the App Store existed.White cast the group as a set of "small but vocal" representatives of "primarily large companies." He said he worried that in trying to satisfy their complaints, "we damage the very foundation that has allowed the Android open source ecosystem to work so well for a much larger set of small and medium-sized businesses."In addition to complaints about fees, developers worried that Apple's own rival products incentivized it to make unfavorable decisions toward them.For example, Tile General Counsel Kirsten Daru said the company had asked Apple for permission to use ultra-wideband technology on iPhones to make its item-tracking technology more precise than it can be using only Bluetooth. She said Apple had refused the request, then reserved the technology for its own competitive AirTags, which it announced Tuesday.While Apple is rolling out a way for third-party developers to build on the more precise location data, Daru said that in order to access that, "we have to give Apple unprecedented control over our business and direct customers to the Find My app to find their lost items."Apple's Andeer argued AirTags is a separate product from Tile, which currently has the majority of the market share for the space, and that opening tools to more third-party developers will encourage competition.Unclear standardsApp makers also complained that Apple's enforcement of its app store rules can appear arbitrary and delay the launch of key features. Apple may tell developers which rule they've violated but not exactly how or what to do to fix it, Sine said.He said Tinder had tried to submit a version of its app with a feature aimed at protecting its LGBTQ+ users by notifying them when they were in a country where they could be at risk of exposing their sexuality or gender identity. Sine said that it took two months and a conversation between top executives of Match Group's owner, IAC, and Apple to sort out the issue.An exchange between subcommittee ranking member Mike Lee, R-Utah, and Andeer revealed how complex Apple's App Store rules can be.U.S. Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah speaks during a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the FBI investigation into links between Donald Trump associates and Russian officials during the 2016 U.S. presidential election, on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., November 10, 2020.Susan Walsh | ReutersLee asked Andeer to differentiate between why a paid service through Tinder might incur a commission while one for Uber would not. Andeer explained an Uber customer is paying for a non-digital service — a car to show up to their house — while they don't expect the same return from Tinder, saying that would be a different service, in what appeared to be an insinuation of sex work.The app makers emphasized their reliance on the app stores because of their unprecedented access to consumers. But, they argued, it's not the symbiotic relationship that Apple and Google like to paint."We are not successful because of what Apple has done, we have been successful despite Apple's interference," Gutierrez said. "And we would have been much more successful but for their anticompetitive behavior."WATCH: Here's why some experts are calling for a breakup of Big Tech after the House antitrust reportVIDEO2:3402:34Why some experts are calling for a breakup of Big Tech after the House antitrust reportTech

2021/04/21, In this articleAAPLApple AirtagSource: Apple Inc.On Tuesday, Apple announced a long-awaited gadget called AirTag. Users can attach the $29 coin-sized device to valuables such as keys or a backpack, then, if the item gets lost, locate it on a live map inside Apple's built-in Find My software.AirTag competes with a number of other products on the market, including from Tile, whose general counsel complained before Congress on Wednesday about Apple's overall dominance.But AirTag's most important differentiating feature isn't the technology inside the $29 coin-sized stainless steel gadget. It's other people's iPhones.AirTag doesn't have a GPS signal, which would rapidly drain its battery and raise privacy questions. Instead, when it's attached to a lost object, it sends out scrambled Bluetooth signals. For those signals to reach the internet and inform the person who's looking for their lost device, they'll need to find an iPhone that's listening for them.VIDEO3:4303:43Apple announces lost item tracker called AirTagNews Videos"Using Bluetooth and the hundreds of millions of iOS, iPadOS, and macOS devices in active use around the world, the user can locate a missing device even if it can't connect to a Wi-Fi or cellular network," Apple explained in a security disclosure about the Find My service. "Any iOS, iPadOS, or macOS device with 'offline finding' enabled in Find My settings can act as a 'finder device.'"The product represents a new frontier for Apple: using its install base of over 1 billion iPhones as infrastructure to build services that its competitors can't. Now iPhones are part of a physical network out in the world that's looking out for stolen goods — even if their users have never purchased an AirTag."The bottom line is AirTag is an example of Apple leveraging its ecosystem to create a more compelling product than what is currently in the market," Loup Ventures founder Gene Munster wrote in a newsletter on Tuesday. "Specifically, AirTag will have better navigation and discovery features, along with a billion-plus device network that can be utilized to help locate lost items."Enrolling in the Find My network does have benefits to iPhone users who don't buy AirTags. Many users sign up because the same app can be used to find lost Apple products, and it's easy to do when signing into an iCloud account on an iPhone.The Find My network can be used to find an iPhone after it's been shut off, as thieves often do after stealing a phone. (If the device is on, it can be contacted through Find My iPhone, a similar service that uses the device's internet connection and predates the Find My network.)Users can also opt out of the Find My network in Apple's settings, although that means they don't get the benefits of the network, such as finding devices that have been turned off or aren't connected to cellular or Bluetooth. (To do so, go to Settings > Your Name > Find My > Find My iPhone > and then toggle "Find My network" on or off.)A vast, global networkThe number of devices participating in the network is crucial for a product such as AirTag.Apple describes its Find My service as a "vast, global network" and allows third-party accessory makers to release products that use it, too.If an AirTag is lost in the middle of a desert with no Apple devices in Bluetooth range, it can't connect to the internet to send signals or update the user's map. But in the middle of an American city, where an estimated 42% of people have iPhones — more in some areas — you're much more likely to find a device that's looking for your lost AirTag.Apple CEO Tim Cook has previously described Apple's product strategy as "only Apple," suggesting that because the company builds hardware, develops software and runs its own online services, it can introduce features that rivals such as Microsoft, Google and Samsung can't.While Samsung and other major smartphone vendors have similar numbers of phones in people's hands, they don't control the underlying operating system, making features such as Find My much more difficult to implement widely at once.For Apple, AirTag is probably an effort to add distinguishing features to its iPhone to discourage current users from switching to an Android device. It's not likely to be a major revenue driver."While the Airtags are incremental to our model we do not believe even a very successful launch of that product will have much impact on our forecasts given the low $29 price point," Goldman Sachs analyst Rod Hall wrote in a note Tuesday.If Apple becomes more skilled at using its installed devices as privacy-sensitive infrastructure, it could represent a durable advantage for the company. Apple's installed base of iPhones could become especially important as it invests heavily in augmented reality, a technology that merges the physical and digital worlds.A network of location-aware iPhones could be used in augmented reality apps such as Pokemon Go, for example, to identify where other players are competing and start a group experience. It provides the sensors and internet connection needed for building digital experiences in the real world without building new equipment each time.The privacy angleAirTag also represents a major test for Apple's privacy positioning.Since 2015, Apple has advertised privacy and security as major differentiators for its iPhone. It has consistently built systems, such as Covid tracking exposure notifications, that are decentralized, which means they are designed in a way that data is processed and calculated on a device instead of on servers that Apple can access.Apple is building on that reputation to assure customers that its Find My system won't leak user location or data when acting as a finding device. Apple says the Find My network keeps location data private and anonymous and that it doesn't store location data or history.How Apple pulls it off is a matter of complicated software engineering. "Find My is built on a foundation of advanced public key cryptography," Apple's security disclosure says.Now Apple's users will need to decide whether they understand and trust the Find My network and Apple — both as users of them, and as iPhone users participating in them to make them work better.

2021/04/22, VIDEO1:1001:10The rift between Apple and Facebook widens as the battle for your data heats upTechCheckApple is working on enhancements to iMessage that will help it compete with the more robust social networking features in Facebook messaging products like WhatsApp, Bloomberg reported on Thursday.Even though Bloomberg's report didn't specify what changes are coming to iMessage or when they're expected to launch, there are serious implications here as tensions between Apple and Facebook continue to heat up.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has already highlighted Apple's iMessage as a key example of how the two companies are increasingly becoming bitter rivals."iMessage is a key linchpin of their ecosystem," Zuckerberg said of Apple on Facebook's earnings call in January. "It comes pre-installed on every iPhone and they preference it with private APIs and permissions, which is why iMessage is the most used messaging service in the U.S."So you can bet the report on those iMessage enhancements are sending the folks at Facebook into a tizzy Thursday morning.Facebook has been focused on encrypted messaging through WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger as it looks to private communication to fuel a new wave of growth for the company. Zuckerberg announced the company's pivot to privacy in 2019, saying "I believe the future of communication will increasingly shift to private, encrypted services."In the meantime, Apple continues to launch more privacy features on the iPhone, requiring app makers like Facebook to disclose the kind of data they collect in "nutrition labels" on each app's page in the App Store. And next week, Apple will enforce a new rule in iOS 14 that will require companies like Facebook to ask permission to track you for targeted ads. According to Apple, iMessage doesn't collect any of the data that Facebook's apps do. In Facebook's view, Apple's privacy changes are designed to favor its own privacy-focused digital services and discourage people from using apps like Facebook that slurp up your data.In the months leading up to the iPhone change, Facebook has gone into full panic mode, waging a PR offensive against Apple's privacy policies. Facebook claims the changes will damage small businesses that rely on targeted ads to offer free services. Apple has said the change is designed to give its customers a clearer view of how apps use their personal data.But the fact that Apple could be planning to expand iMessage's features after those privacy changes take effect is likely to spur more cries of foul play from Zuckerberg and company. And Apple will certainly pitch the new social features in iMessage as a private way to share updates, photos and videos with close friends and family.(For what it's worth, I deleted my Facebook and Instagram accounts over two years ago over privacy concerns and the stream of horrible content the News Feed kept showing me every day. It turns out you don't need to be part of the Facebook ecosystem to share stuff with the people you care about. Apple's iMessage is already great for that.)And beyond that, both companies are hard at work developing the next wave of computing through augmented reality headsets and glasses that could one day eliminate the need to carry around a phone, tablet or any other gadget with a screen.Today, the Apple and Facebook fight is all about privacy. But over the next few years, it'll be more like computing platform battles we saw in the PC versus Mac and Android versus iPhone eras. Relations between the two tech giants are only going to get more intense.

2021/04/22, In this articleAAPLVIDEO3:4303:43Apple announces lost item tracker called AirTagNews VideosApple announced its new AirTag item trackers this week and sent me several to try out, so I'll show you what they're like.The $29 AirTag ($99 for a pack of four) is a tiny metal tracker that you can attach to a keychain, drop in a bag or snap onto your luggage to keep track of those items. It's a lot like competing products from Tile, which has drawn that company's ire, but ties right into Apple's Find My app. It's the same app you can already use other Apple products like your iPhone, family members and friends, or, as of recently, devices made by a few third-party companies, too.AirTag works by using a Bluetooth signal to tap into a network of about a billion Apple devices in the world, like iPhones and Macs, that also broadcast a Bluetooth signal. If you lose something with an AirTag attached to it, you'll get a notification with the location when someone with an iPhone or Mac comes within Bluetooth range of it. It'll also show anyone who finds the item a custom message and phone number, which you enter when you report it lost.It's a smart product for Apple to launch. It'll help make customers more likely to keep buying iPhones if they've already got these things stuck to a bunch of items that they don't want to lose.What AirTag looks likeApple AirTagTodd Haselton | CNBCThis is the AirTag. It's a quarter-sized tracker. It's glossy white on one side and metal on the other. Both sides scratch pretty easily. You can customize it with an emoji or letters before you buy one. It's water-resistant so you can splash it or accidentally drop it in a puddle without damaging it. I ran one under the sink and it still works.Apple AirTagAppleThere's a replaceable CR2032 battery, the sort of coin batteries that you might find in a wristwatch, that should last about a year. You'll get an alert before it dies and you can buy replacement batteries in grocery stores and pharmacies.How to set up AirTagApple AirTagTodd Haselton | AppleIt took me about 20 seconds to set up an AirTag. You just pull out a little battery tab to put it in pairing mode, bring it near your iPhone running iOS 14.5 or newer, and then tap "Connect" on the pop-up box that appears on your phone. It's just like pairing AirPods.Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | AppleThen you enter a name for the item you're tracking. There are some default suggestions like "backpack" and "keys," but you can name it anything you want. After that, you'll just confirm you're registering it to your Apple ID — and it's all set.Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | AppleThen you just attach the AirTag to the item you want to track -- you can stick it on a keychain, drop it in a backpack or bag or put it in your wallet or purse -- and you're ready to roll.How to find lost things with AirTagApple AirTagAppleOnce you're set up, you can track the location of any of your AirTags whenever you have an internet connection. Just open the "Find My" app on your iPhone or iPad, tap "Items," and select the one you want to track.Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | CNBCIf you lose an AirTagged item somewhere — maybe you left it in an airport or at the park — visit the item's page in the Find My app and tap "Lost Mode." There, you can add a custom message and phone number for anyone who finds it, and sign up to receive a notification when it's found. You can't turn on notifications unless you're out of its range — that's actually very helpful, since it tells you if the item is still nearby by blocking you from setting notifications.Apple AirTagAppleIf someone with an iPhone comes in range of the AirTag, they'll receive a notification an AirTagged item is nearby. But even if they don't pick it up, you'll still get an alert on your iPhone showing where the AirTag was at that moment.I tried this by bringing my wife's iPhone near the AirTag, and I got a notification on my iPhone saying the AirTag was at my address.An Android phone can also help retrieve a lost AirTag.Todd Haselton | CNBCThis even works if someone with an Android device finds it, as long as the device has an NFC chip — and most modern devices do. I tested it by tapping it to the back of an Android phone, and the Android phone launched a web browser that showed my phone number and said the item was lost.Some of you may have privacy concerns — what if somebody drops an AirTag in your bag to track you? Apple says it has thought about this. If an AirTag is separated from its owner and is traveling with someone else — say you're walking with one in your bag without realizing — it will begin to play an alert sound.Once you discover it, you can tap an iPhone or any NFC-compatible Android device to the AirTag and get instructions on how to disable it. (You can remove the battery by pushing the back of the AirTag and twisting it counterclockwise.) There isn't a way to report abuse to Apple, but you can take it to law enforcement for help. You may need to provide police with the AirTag and/or the serial number which is tied to the owner's Apple ID.Precision tracking with iPhone 11 and iPhone 12Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | AppleIf you have an iPhone 11 or later, you can use the built-in ultra wideband chip to find the exact location of an AirTag. That means your iPhone will direct you to the keys hiding in your sofa.You just open the Find My app, tap "Find Nearby" and your iPhone will use a combination of sensors and cameras to direct you to the lost item. It will show you how far away something is and will display an arrow on the screen telling you which direction to walk.Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | AppleApple also includes a flashlight shortcut if you're hunting in the dark, and an audio option that will force the AirTag to emit loud beeps. It's loud enough that I could hear it from adjacent rooms in my house.Should you buy AirTag?Apple AirTagTodd Haselton | AppleI think it's a great gadget to have if you're in Apple's ecosystem and use an iPhone. I plan to leave one on a pair of keys I keep losing, and I might put one in a small backpack in case I accidentally leave it somewhere like the park.Just know that it doesn't necessarily prevent theft. Anyone who discovers an AirTag in an item they stole can just remove the battery or toss it somewhere else. Truly, it's best for recovering items that you lost or may be hanging around the house somewhere.You can order them beginning Friday.

2021/04/23, VIDEO4:4204:42REvil: What we know about the hacker group that's holding Apple's data hostageSquawk BoxThe ransom note was both taunting and ominous: "Today we, the REvil Group, will provide data on the upcoming releases of the company beloved by many," the criminal hackers wrote.In the note posted on the dark web the group told the world it hacked an Apple supplier called Quanta Computer and wanted $50 million in ransom or else it would release sensitive internal documents. "Tim Cook can say thank you Quanta," wrote REvil.The extortion attempt, which came early this week, represented a significant escalation for a well-known hacker collective. And experts tell CNBC it may presage a new era of emboldened ransomware attackers who are protected by Russian leader Vladimir Putin and empowered to take on the biggest companies in the world.  Cybersecurity experts in the U.S. say the group has a long rap sheet of criminal activity against Western companies. Their analysis suggests REvil — pronounced like the letter "R" followed by the word "evil" — is largely made up of native Russian speakers and is likely located in a former Soviet state. Whoever they are, they have a taste for dark humor: REvil posts its stolen documents on a site on the dark web that it calls "Happy Blog.""We know that they are protected most likely by Russian intelligence or the Russian government, as are most ransomware groups, which has allowed them to flourish over the last 18 months," said Marc Bleicher of Arete Incident Response, a cybersecurity firm that specializes in negotiations with criminal hackers. Bleicher says his firm has dealt with REvil 32 times in just the past 90 days."I think, you know, based on what we've seen so far, this may be just the tip of the iceberg over the last few months, and what you're going to start to see is organizations that are of the same size and stature as Apple," Bleicher said.That means more CEOs need to brace for ransomware impact and for REvil's shockingly direct intimidation tactics. Bleicher said one signature of the group is stealing a CEO's personal cellphone number from company computers and then repeatedly calling that CEO to taunt him or her personally about the loss of data and to demand huge payouts.Bleicher's firm has analyzed 173 previous REvil attacks and says it can see some patterns in how the gang operates. One thing becomes clear: Attacking Apple by name — and demanding $50 million — is on a much different scale from what REvil has operated on in the past. Thirty-one percent of the companies attacked by the group have been in professional services, not technology, Arete found. Nineteen percent have been in health care, and 16% in manufacturing.The average ransom demand has also been much lower in the past, Arete found, at just under $728,000. After negotiations over the price, the average ransom actually paid is even lower than that: Just over $129,000.It's a remarkably business-like operation, complete with customer service desks, software support teams and even a Craigslist-style marketplace to recruit new hackers to the enterprise.Bleicher provided CNBC with one jobs posting for REvil that he found on the dark web. Written in Russian, it says: "We have 1 position for a person that gains accesses to networks, that already have active accesses. Monday we'll announce one of our largest attacks. ​We work 24x7. We are stable. We make money — a lot of money. We are waiting for you in our direct message."Charles Carmakal, a senior vice president at the cybersecurity firm FireEye, said his rough estimate is the gang has collected a total of $100 million so far. That means a $50 million ransom would be an enormous step up for the group.But everything in this criminal underworld is negotiable."I have seen other organizations being asked for $50 million," Carmakal said. "Nobody really realistically pays that much money. They'll try to negotiate it down to a number that is a little bit more reasonable and doable if they do decide to pay."Carmakal said the huge ransom demand and high-profile target in this case may be more about getting attention — and scaring future victims — than it is about this one case. One possibility is the high-profile taunting and ransom note were only made public after a private negotiation that didn't end well from the hacker's point of view. So now they're leveraging that for publicity and intimidation."These groups tend to amplify their messages and try to coerce victims, usually after they don't feel like the victim is willing to pay," Carmakal said.But why are companies sending these huge payments to criminal gangs at all? Carmakal said firms look at the scale of the potential damage and often conclude they have no choice."A lot of organizations feel compelled to pay because they don't want that data to get out there," he said. "They feel that they've got an obligation to their shareholders or partners or to the customer to prevent that data from making its way out onto the open market."The latest REvil attack is still in play. The gang demanded payment from Apple by May 1 and said it would release more data every day. So far, though, no further Apple data has been dumped on the dark web.That could be one indication, experts say, that ransom payment negotiations are already underway.

2021/04/19, Apple CEO Tim Cook takes a selfie with an attendee during a special event on September 10, 2019 in the Steve Jobs Theater on Apple's Cupertino, California campus.Justin Sullivan | Getty ImagesApple will hold its first product launch event of the year on Tuesday.On deck: New iPad Pros are expected to be the primary new hardware products Apple unveils. While Apple's iPad business showed lackluster growth in the mid-2010s, it has seen a boom over the last year as consumers worked and played from home during the pandemic.But beyond the new gadgets, Apple is facing a decade of increased competition and courtroom battles on numerous fronts from the likes of Facebook, Epic Games, Spotify and lawmakers and regulators around the world. It may feel like just another iPad event. But there's a lot of tension bubbling under the surface at Apple. And a lot of it could threaten Apple's next wave of growth as it expands into more digital services and new forms of computing technology.Here's a quick look at the conflicts coming to a head as we near Tuesday's Apple event:Apple vs. FacebookFacebook has been waging an all-out PR war against Apple over an impending change to the iPhone software that will give users the option to block apps from tracking them for targeted ads. Facebook has said the move will damage small businesses that rely on advertising to provide free digital services and software. Apple has said the change will give iPhone owners a better understanding of how apps track them and give customers the option to block that tracking.But the bitterness between the two companies goes much deeper than that.Both companies are working on technology they believe will usher in the next wave of computing after the smartphone, thanks to computerized glasses that use augmented reality. Facebook is expected to release its first pair of AR glasses as soon as this year. Apple could launch its first headset in 2022. If the platform takes off, you'll have both Facebook and Apple duking it out to dominate AR, much like Apple battled Microsoft in the PC era and Google and Samsung (Android) in the current smartphone era.This fight is far from over. In fact, it's just beginning.Apple vs. Epic Games and other large app developersNineteen Eighty-Fortnite adEpic GamesOn May 3, Apple and Epic Games, maker of the popular game Fortnite, head to trial in their dispute over how Apple manages payments from iOS apps. Last fall, Epic Games purposefully changed the iOS version of Fortnite to allow users to pay Epic directly, circumventing Apple's App Store rules. Apple ultimately removed Fortnite from the App Store, and Epic had a lawsuit ready to go.Epic's complaint against Apple echoes what we've heard from several iOS app makers over the last decade: Apple generally takes a 30% cut of digital transactions within apps and sales of paid apps themselves. Developers in Epic's camp say the so-called "Apple tax" gives Apple too much leverage since it only allows users to download software from its own store. Apple does not allow alternative app stores like Google does on Android.Large app makers such as Spotify and dating company Match Group support Epic's lawsuit. Many of these developers also formed a group called the Coalition for App Fairness, which has recently pushed state legislatures in Arizona and North Dakota to pass laws reining in Apple's control of the App Store. If Apple loses the court battle or is forced to make concessions to Epic and other app developers, it could slow down growth in Apple's App Store revenue. (The App Store generated about $64 billion in gross sales in 2020, up from about $50 billion in 2019.)Apple has said it collects the fees in part to maintain the safety and security of the App Store so its customers can feel confident in the software they download. The company recently changed its fee structure so that it will only take a 15% cut from apps that generate less than $1 million in a year.Apple vs. lawmakersApple's control over the App Store was also the key focus of a congressional antitrust report last year that found Apple uses its control "to create and enforce barriers to competition and discriminate against and exclude rivals while preferencing its own offerings." Apple denied the findings of the report and said its fees are in line with other digital software stores.In addition to the legislation in Arizona and North Dakota, regulators in the U.S. are reportedly probing Apple for a formal antitrust complaint.Apple's China vulnerabilityApple's dependence on China is a vulnerability rivals could exploit. Most of Apple's products, including the iPhone, are assembled in China before they're shipped to customers around the world.While Apple has a small manufacturing presence in the U.S., most of it happens in China. Apple's reliance on supply chains and assembly in the country is something rivals might point to amid rising geopolitical tensions between the U.S. and China.And it's already happening.Earlier this month, Peter Thiel, a billionaire tech investor and Facebook board member, said Apple is less likely to confront China because of its deep ties in the country. He also had similar criticism about Google's efforts in China.″Apple is probably the one that's structurally a real problem, because the whole iPhone supply chain gets made from China," Thiel said. "Apple is one that has real synergies with China."VIDEO3:3703:37Apple announces April 20 event to unveil new products, iPad expectedHalftime Report

2021/04/20, CNBC's Kelly EvansCNBCOne of my favorite things about the Apple Watch is hitting that little button that makes your phone go "ding" so you can find it. I probably use this two to three times a day. Half the time it dings right in front of me, or in my own pocket. But every now and then it's slid down a sofa cushion or sitting in a stroller pocket outdoors, and without my watch it would have taken me ages to find.  Anyhow, apparently there are these little "Tile" bluetooth trackers that people can now slap onto phones or anything else they want to locate around the house (I can see a case for the TV remote, a kid's favorite toy, the salt shaker, etc.). Long story short, Apple may be launching its own version of these, called "Air Tags," at its product event today.  The event kicks off at 1 p.m. Eastern, so we'll be following it live all hour on the show today. Air Tags are hardly the most exciting thing happening; there could be new iPad Pros, new iMac computers (featuring Apple's own chips now), maybe even new AirPod headphones. There could even be hints, analyst Dan Ives told CNBC, around future Augmented Reality tech that could be used in, say, Apple Glasses next year. Little wonder the company has called this event "Spring Loaded." It could certainly be jam-packed.  There could also be announcements on the services side, with speculation about paid podcasting. This whole bevy of offerings is why Ives thinks Apple is headed towards being a $3 trillion company; "the innovation continues in Cupertino," he said. "It's all about monetization of an unparalleled install base."  Others aren't so sure, saying Apple's red-hot hardware growth will cool post-pandemic, that its TV offerings aren't great and that a podcasting service would face tough competition against the likes of Spotify. Not to mention its trial with Epic Games coming up on May 3rd, which brings to a head complaints about Apple's cut of App Store purchases. Even if the trial goes Apple's way, regulators may turn against it.  On top of all those concerns, the China issue looms large. Apple "has real synergies with China," Peter Thiel reportedly warned at a conference earlier this month. The U.S. ought to put "a lot of pressure" and scrutiny on the company, he said, because "it's probably the one that's structurally a real problem, because the whole iPhone supply chain gets made from China."  Closer to home, Thiel is also on the board of Facebook, which is entangled with Apple at the moment over a completely different issue--the looming iPhone change that will allow users to blocks apps like Facebook from tracking them for targeted ads. Plenty of risks surround the Apple story, but as we know in investing, no risk, no reward.  In the meantime, it's also now "Doge Day," so we'll see just how "high" the dogecoin fanbase can push its valuation today. Oh, and happy birthday to my younger sis :-) See you at 1 p.m! KellyTwitter: @KellyCNBCInstagram: @realkellyevans

2021/04/27, The Spotify application is seen on an iPhone in this photo illustration.Jaap Arriens | NurPhoto | Getty ImagesSpotify launched on Tuesday its podcast subscription service in the U.S., giving creators more range in how they choose to make money. The move comes just one week after streaming rival Apple announced its own subscription podcast offering.Podcast monetization has been tricky for streaming companies to realize, since it's been difficult to measure the return on investment in podcast advertising. However, more players have been putting weight behind the effort. Spotify, for example, has invested heavily into its technology with its "Streaming Ad Insertion" tool and $235 million acquisition of ad tech company Megaphone.Spotify's new subscription feature is powered through Anchor, its creator platform. That will allow podcasters to mark episodes as subscriber-only and put them on Spotify and other platforms, the company said.In an effort to draw more creators to the platform, Spotify is not taking subscription revenue cut for the next two years. The company said participating creators will receive 100% of their subscriber revenues, excluding payment transaction fees. Starting in 2023, the company will charge a 5% fee for the tool. Apple, on the other hand, takes a 30% cut the first year and will then drop the fee to 15% in the second year.The company will launch the feature with 12 different podcasters, including NPR, and will open up to more creators in the coming months.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO2:4902:49Apple's Podcast subscription escalates battle with Spotify, says WSJ's Joanna SternTechCheck

2021/04/21, Source: Apple Inc.Morgan Stanley is betting on better-than-expected results for Apple next week, which should spur the stock to outperform amid lackluster gains in 2021.

2021/04/19, CEO Tim Cook speaks at an Apple event at the company's headquarters in Cupertino, California, September 10, 2019.Stephen Lam | ReutersApple will allow controversial social media app Parler back onto the iPhone App Store, according to a letter released Monday by Rep. Ken Buck, R-Colo.Apple removed the app in January after Parler was used to publicize the Jan. 6 U.S. Capitol riot when the app's content featured calls for violence and other illegal activity.Parler has updated its app and improved its content moderation, an Apple official wrote in the letter. As of April 14, Apple's App Review department had approved the changes and an updated version of Parler will be approved by Apple, the letter said."Apple anticipates that the updated Parler app will become available immediately upon Parler releasing it," Timothy Powderly, Apple's senior director for government affairs, wrote in the letter, which was addressed to Buck and Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah.Buck said in a tweet that the decision was a "huge win for free speech." The Parler app was not available for download on an iPhone on Monday morning, and a Parler representative said that the app would re-launch on Apple's App Store next week. "We have worked to put in place systems that will better detect unlawful speech and allow users to filter content undesirable to them, while maintaining our strict prohibition against content moderation based on viewpoint," Parler interim CEO Mark Meckler said in a statement. Parler is a social network that competes with companies such as Twitter and Facebook. It was initially advertised as a website and app with an emphasis on "free speech" and significantly less content moderation. It is popular with people who supported former President Donald Trump.Apple said it removed Parler because the app violated Apple's app guidelines around violent content. Apple said it was not a permanent ban, only a suspension, and could be "cured" if Parler added moderation and removed violent content. Apple said in its letter that over 30,000 apps had been removed in 2020 for issues with objectionable user-generated content."And so, if they get their moderation together, they would be back on there," Apple CEO Tim Cook said on Fox News in January.Apple's App Store rules have been a focus of regulators and lawmakers who say that they raise competition concerns because the app store is the only way for most users to install software on an iPhone. Last week, Apple agreed to send a top executive to testify before the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust later this week.Google also removed Parler from its Google Play store for Android phones, and Amazon pulled its web hosting contract, which has led to a lawsuit. Parler is still not available on Google Play.Apple said it did not coordinate with the other companies to remove Parler."Apple made an independent decision to remove Parler for non-compliance with the guidelines, and it did not coordinate or otherwise consult with Google or Amazon with respect to that decision," Powderly wrote in the letter.

2021/04/21, In this article2382-TWPWRAAPLApple CEO Tim Cook presents new products during a special event at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Howard Gilman Opera House October 30, 2018, in New York. Timothy A. Clary | AFP | Getty ImagesA group of hackers named REvil has stolen and published product blueprints from Apple supplier Quanta Computer and is holding other blueprints under a $50 million ransom, Bloomberg reported Wednesday.The hackers reportedly published design details for a new MacBook on Tuesday, when Apple was holding a product event for new devices including the iMac, iPad Pro and an updated Apple TV.An Apple spokesperson wasn't immediately available to comment.If the hackers have the files, it could mean that some of Apple's hardware plans may come to light before Apple is ready to announce those devices. Apple likely has many new devices in the works, from expected products such as new iPhones and computers to entire new device categories such as augmented reality glasses. Quanta Computer builds some of Apple's Mac products.Quanta confirmed an attack to Bloomberg and said it's working with law enforcement. The company also said that there's no material impact on the company's business operation.REvil reportedly claims that it has other product blueprints and that it will continue to publish photos and documents of future Apple devices daily unless Apple pays the $50 million ransom.Read more on Bloomberg.VIDEO6:3206:32Apple announces new iMac models that come in different colors, advanced camera and mic systemsNews Videos Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/04/20, Apple CEO Tim Cook delivers a keynote during the European Union's privacy conference at the EU Parliament in Brussels, Belgium October 24, 2018.Yves Herman | ReutersThe next major update to the iPhone operating system, iOS 14.5, will be released "next week," Apple said Tuesday.The detail was slipped into new product announcements Apple made Tuesday. IOS 14.5 has a lot of new features, but the one that's being most closely watched is called ATT, or App Tracking Transparency.After iPhone users install iOS 14.5, when they open any app that wants to access a device ID called the Identifier for Advertisers, or IDFA, they will see a pop-up. The pop-up will ask if they want to be tracked and give them an opportunity to opt in. Companies that rely on online advertising, especially Facebook, have said that the privacy change will reduce the effectiveness and profitability of targeted ads and potentially roil the online advertising business.VIDEO1:0801:08Facebook head of App says Apple iOS changes are for profits, not privacyTechCheckApple has also said that it is prepared to remove apps that don't comply with the new policy. In a blog post, Apple said that all apps submitted starting on April 26 must be ready to support ATT.IOS 14.5 also has other new features, including a redesigned vaccine emoji, a feature that helps quickly unlock an iPhone while wearing a mask, and new voices for Siri.Apple typically releases major software updates on Tuesdays. A new purple iPhone that hits stores on April 30 will have the software pre-installed.

2021/04/21, Monitors display Coinbase signage during the company's initial public offering (IPO) at the Nasdaq market site April 14, 2021 in New York City.Robert Nickelsberg | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2021/04/13, In this articleAAPLVIDEO3:3703:37Apple announces April 20 event to unveil new products, iPad expectedHalftime ReportApple just announced an April 20 product event where it's expected to announce new versions of the iPad Pro, AirTags tracking devices and more. The event will start at 1 p.m. ET.Apple could use the event to continue riding the boost iPads have seen during the coronavirus pandemic. In January, Apple reported $8.44 billion in iPad revenue for its fiscal first quarter, up 41% year over year. The new iPad Pros are expected to pack Apple's newest and fastest processor and may include a new type of screen that uses mini LED technology to produce better images for things like watching movies and viewing photos.It's a digital event, which means it will be streamed online instead of held in person, due to the ongoing pandemic. Last year, Apple refreshed the iPad Pro in March, when it also introduced the Magic Keyboard, which makes it feel more like a laptop. It announced its second-generation AirPods in March 2019, so it's possible those get refreshed, too.Apple has long been rumored to launch AirTags, a product similar to Tile that you can attach to items, like keys, or place in a bag, and track them using Apple's Find My software built into iPads and iPhones. Apple has been testing a way to track these devices in its beta software for iPhones.But Apple could use the event to introduce any number of new products. Other devices that may be refreshed include iMacs, which haven't been updated to its new M1 processor.Apple's AirPods are the bestselling headphones in the world. It makes sense to refresh them to keep the momentum going as competitors introduce similar products, often at lower prices. However, top Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo said in March that new AirPods may not be released until the third quarter of this year.And finally, the Apple TV is long overdue for an update. The Apple TV 4K, the current model, came out in 2017, but even that was a minor update from the version that came out in 2015. Bloomberg said in December that Apple is planning an update with a new remote, an updated processor and a "gaming focus."VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the StreetSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/04/26, Source: CasperHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Monday:

2021/04/14, CEO Tim Cook waves while arriving on stage during a previous Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in San Jose, California.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple is slated to release its quarterly earnings in two weeks, and a few Wall Street analysts are expecting a big beat from the tech giant and a rally in the stock heading into the print.

2021/04/20, CrowdStrike IPO at the Nasdaq exchange June 12, 2019.Source: NasdaqHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Tuesday:

2021/04/12, pixdeluxe | E+ | Getty ImagesThis spring, Apple is expected to roll out a change to its iOS 14 software that will grant users more privacy and disrupt the digital advertising ecosystem.This change will affect a unique device identifier on every iPhone and iPad called the IDFA or the "identifier for advertisers." Companies that sell mobile ads rely on this ID to target promotions to users and estimate their effectiveness.With the upcoming update to iOS 14, apps that want to track users will have to ask them to opt in.This change is expected to shake up digital advertising. Here are the companies that stand to win and lose.

2021/04/12, Sen. Amy Klobuchar, (D-MN) speaks during the fourth day of the confirmation hearing for Supreme Court nominee Judge Amy Coney Barrett before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, October 15, 2020.Susan Walsh | Pool | ReutersApple has agreed to send a top executive to testify before the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust after leading senators pressed the company to make one available to discuss competition concerns about its app store.In a letter to Apple CEO Tim Cook on Friday, subcommittee chair Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., and ranking member Mike Lee, R-Utah, wrote about Apple's "refusal to provide a witness to testify in a timely manner." They said they "strongly urge Apple to reconsider its position."Apple responded on Sunday in a letter obtained by CNBC and first reported by Bloomberg, agreeing to send Chief Compliance Officer Kyle Andeer to testify on April 21. Timothy Powderly, senior director of government affairs for the Americas, wrote that Apple was "surprised" by the letter from Klobuchar and Lee, saying it had previously expressed a willingness to participate but "simply sought alternative dates in light of upcoming matters that have been scheduled for some time and that touch on similar issues."Klobuchar and Lee wrote on Friday that Apple had previously cited ongoing litigation as a reason for refusing to provide a witness in April. Apple faces a lawsuit from Fortnite maker Epic Games, which has accused the company of violating antitrust laws through its stewardship of its app store. Epic and other developers have long complained of Apple's 15% to 30% fees on purchases customers make through apps on its iOS devices.The senators said that plenty of other executives in the tech sector and beyond have testified under similar conditions, adding that Apple was aware of the litigation when originally working with the subcommittee to provide a witness. They also noted Apple's choice to send witnesses to testify before state legislatures voting on bills that would regulate app stores in the way their panel plans to explore."Apple's sudden change in course to refuse to provide a witness to testify before the Subcommittee on app store competition issues in April, when the company is clearly willing to discuss them in other public forums, is unacceptable," they wrote in the letter Friday.Powderly told the senators Apple understands their interest in holding the hearing in April and would make Andeer available. Andeer has previously testified before House members and in state legislatures over similar issues. Powderly emphasized the app store's role in helping developers of all sizes to make apps that serve the customer experience."Customers benefit from our commitment to quality, security, and privacy, and we look forward to the opportunity to share our story," he wrote.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: Apple's fight with Epic Games is part of a larger antitrust battleVIDEO3:2703:27Apple's fight with Epic Games is part of a larger antitrust battleTech

2021/04/15, iPhone 12 Mini and iPhone 12 Pro Max.Todd Haselton | CNBCApple's 2022 iPhones could come in four different models with significantly improved cameras, TFI analyst Ming-Chi Kuo said in a Wednesday note to investors.The devices could come in two sizes, a 6.7-inch phone and a 6.1-inch phone. Both sizes could come in high-end and low-end versions, according to the note.If accurate, Kuo's prediction would suggest that Apple is backing away from its lowest-cost new device, the iPhone 12 Mini, which was released in 2020 after years of user requests for a smaller iPhone.However, reports from Apple's Asian supply chain and analyst estimates suggest that the iPhone 12 Mini is not selling well compared with other iPhones with larger displays and bigger batteries.Kuo's research focuses on companies in Apple's Asian supply chain, and he's well known for making accurate predictions about upcoming Apple products.In the Wednesday note, he said that the 2022 iPhones will feature camera upgrades using expensive parts to increase resolution and image quality and will make video shot on iPhones more appropriate for a forthcoming high-resolution augmented reality and virtual reality headset.He writes the 2022 iPhones will include a new image sensor supplied by Sony that can output video at 8k resolution and take 48-megapixel photos. They'll also use improved camera lenses."We believe that the camera quality of the new 2H22 iPhone will elevate mobile phone camera photography to a new level," Kuo wrote.Looking beyond 2022, Kuo writes that he expects Apple to release iPhones in 2023 with a "periscope" telephoto lens for longer zoom and to include the FaceID facial recognition camera underneath the phone's display, which would suggest that the "notch" in the screen on the current iPhones could shrink or be removed.He also expects Apple to release a headset computer for augmented reality and virtual reality applications with 15 cameras, although he didn't specify a time frame.VIDEO3:3703:37Apple announces April 20 event to unveil new products, iPad expectedHalftime Report

2021/04/16, Coinbase is a popular option for buying bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.Todd Haselton | CNBCWatch out social media, finance apps are becoming a more popular form of entertainment on people's phones.Trading platforms Robinhood and Coinbase grabbed the top two spots in Apple's App Store this week as Americans turn their attention to stock and cryptocurrency markets.Robinhood notched the no. 1 spot on Friday, followed by crypto trading platform Coinbase, according to data from Sensor Tower. TikTok was third. The surge in popularity comes as Coinbase made its debut on the Nasdaq on Wednesday, and bitcoin topped $64,000 for the first time.The surge in popularity underlines a boom in retail trading during the pandemic and "meme stock" culture around names like GameStop. The video game retailer became a household name in January after a group of traders on Reddit sparked a historic short squeeze.Typically, social media and entertainment options such as TikTok, Reddit and Instagram are the top apps. The rankings reflect the momentum in downloads of a certain app, not necessarily the total cumulative downloads.This isn't Robinhood's first time at the number one spot. In January, at the height of the GameStop controversy, the brokerage firm was the most popular app in Apple and Google app stores. Webull, another trading app, was second. Coinbase, Square's Cash App and Fidelity also made the top 10.Robinhood, which shut down the buy side of certain stocks during the height of the GameStop frenzy, saw blowback on social media, and its CEO was later called testify in front of Congress. But Robinhood still added an estimated 3 million customers in January alone, according to estimates from JMP Securities.Venture capital investors watch engagement and download numbers closely. Until recently, those metrics had mostly been used to measure the success of social media apps. Robinhood investors are now using similar metrics. It was able to raise $3 billion in capital over a few days in January, which investors told CNBC was due to its eye-popping growth as it dealt with a public relations and regulatory crisis.Charles Schwab said Thursday it added a record 3.2 million new clients in the first quarter — more new accounts than in all of 2020. CEO Walt Bettinger credited "heightened market attention to certain names via social media" as one factor that "significantly bolstered trading activity."-- CNBC's Steve Kovach contributed reporting.

2021/04/07, Apple CEO Tim Cook delivers the keynote address during the 2020 Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) at Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, California.Brooks Kraft/Apple Inc/Handout via ReutersiPhones will soon be able to track lost items using a built-in app called Find My, Apple announced on Wednesday.The first products that work with Find My will be released next week, Apple said. They include e-bikes from VanMoof, wireless earbuds from Belkin and an item finder from Chipolo. These products will use other people's Apple devices in a privacy-sensitive way to find lost objects and show their location inside the Find My app on a map.Find My was originally announced last summer at Apple's annual developer conference and builds on an existing service called Find My iPhone.For Apple, the Find My app is a feature for its customers that adds to the value of the iPhone, and if it's useful, it could make users less likely to switch to competing Android devices.However, the service has been dogged by scrutiny from lawmakers and complaints from Tile and other companies that sell competing products. Tile has brought complaints to the European Union and participates in an industry group that is critical of Apple.In January 2020, Tile's general counsel, Kirsten Daru, testified in front of a congressional hearing accusing Apple of using its market power to disadvantage its product and favor its own services, including adding pop-ups to iPhone software that required users to repeatedly agree to let Tile's software operate in the background.Tile also cited reports from analysts and media that pointed to Apple preparing its own lost-item tracker hardware and said that as Apple was reportedly working on that product that it had started to hassle Tile, including removing its products from Apple retail stores.Apple disagreed with Tile's arguments and said at the time that it would make changes to its iPhone software that would allow Tile's product to work better, such as letting it run in the background. It later announced the Find My program."Apple's solution would continue to put Tile and other apps and hardware developers offering finder services at a competitive disadvantage," a House Judiciary subcommittee report released last October concluded.Apple has never confirmed that it is working on lost-item tracker hardware. It was not announced in Wednesday's press release, nor was Tile mentioned. A Tile representative didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.Apple's Find My technology uses Apple devices' Bluetooth wireless signals to create a network of devices looking out for lost items. Apple said on Wednesday that the process is end-to-end encrypted and anonymous, so that neither Apple nor the manufacturer of a Find My object knows where it is. Only the user and their iPhone know the location of the product.Apple also said that it would release specifications so that accessory makers could use a new chip in recent iPhones using a different kind of wireless signal called ultra wideband to locate lost objects, too.Companies that want to build Find My products can participate in Apple's authorized accessories program, called MFi. Apple said that additional companies will bring Find My-compatible products to market.VIDEO2:1002:10Facebook battles Apple over user privacy features in iOS updateTech

2021/04/08, In this articleAAPLMSFTVIDEO5:0605:06Stock market cage match: Traders pit Apple and Microsoft against one anotherTrading NationIt's a battle royal between the two largest S&P 500 stocks.In one corner of the ring, Microsoft keeps hitting records; in the other, Apple has not reached a new high since January.CNBC's "Trading Nation" asked two traders which is the better bet: the champion Microsoft or recent underdog Apple?"It depends on what you value more. Do you value … catch-up or do you value long-term growth?" Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global and chief market strategist at Lido Advisors, said Thursday.Apple's comeback from the pandemic lows has slowed since January. While up 100% from a 52-week low, it has fallen 10% from its Jan. 25 high. The shares are down nearly 2% this year even as the XLK tech ETF has gained 8%."Now if you look at just pure valuation, believe it or not, Microsoft is actually not trading at as high a premium as Apple is, so even though Apple is absolutely cheaper, Microsoft is actually cheaper relative to its own history," she said.Sanchez said Microsoft is trading around 20% above its long-term valuations, high but justified given her outlook for its sales growth trends.JC O'Hara, chief market technician at MKM Partners, said Microsoft looks to be the stronger contender here. However, that's not the name he's betting on."When you look at Apple and you look at Microsoft, they both trade with such a high degree of positive correlation between their price action. So what that makes me think here is that Apple could be the best trade to buy right now," O'Hara said during the same interview.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsJust as Microsoft last week began to break out to new highs, O'Hara predicts Apple will do likewise soon."If Apple starts to build momentum and break new highs, a lot more eyes are going to be watching this stock, so we're not buying leadership, we're buying a laggard, we're buying something that's slowly starting to improve," he said.Disclosure: Lido owns MSFT and AAPL. Sanchez holds MSFT.Disclaimer

2021/04/06, Apple iPhone 5GSource: Apple Inc.Apple's services business is growing but the stock's valuation is getting offset by multiple compression in some of its high-growth peers, according to Morgan Stanley.

2021/04/05, Tim Cook announces iPhone 11.Source: AppleApple CEO Tim Cook hinted at the company's work in autonomous vehicles, following recent reports that the company is in renewed talks to develop its own car."The autonomy itself is a core technology, in my view. If you sort of step back, the car, in a lot of ways, is a robot. An autonomous car is a robot. And so there's lots of things you can do with autonomy. And we'll see what Apple does," Cook said in an interview released Monday with Kara Swisher on the "Sway" podcast."We investigate so many things internally. Many of them never see the light of day. I'm not saying that one will not," Cook added.When asked if Apple was working on a car itself or the technology within a car, Cook declined to comment."We love to integrate hardware, software, and services, and find the intersection points of those because we think that's where the magic occurs. And so that's what we love to do. And we love to own the primary technology that's around that," he said.Apple has long been expected to get into the auto business with its own vehicle or selling its technology to other car makers, and has made a number of moves indicating it planned to do so. Helping bolster its engineering ranks, the company acquired autonomous vehicle startup Drive.ai in 2019.An autonomous vehicle could position the company against Tesla, which is rolling out its own self-driving features. In 2018, Apple hired back Doug Field, then Tesla's senior vice president of engineering, to presumably work on self-driving cars. Apple has also brought in several other former Tesla employees, including former Tesla vice president of engineering Michael Schwekutsch, now senior director of engineering for the Special Projects Group at Apple.Tesla CEO Elon Musk had even said last year that he once tried to start talks to sell the company to Apple, but Cook declined to take a meeting."You know, I've never spoken to Elon, although I have great admiration and respect for the company he's built. I think Tesla has done an unbelievable job of not only establishing the lead, but keeping the lead for such a long period of time in the EV space. So I have great appreciation for them," Cook told Swisher.Most recently, CNBC reported that Apple was close to finalizing a deal with Hyundai-Kia to manufacture an Apple-branded autonomous electric vehicle at the Kia assembly plant in West Point, Georgia. However, the automakers later walked back on the claims.Listen to the full interview with Tim Cook here.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO2:3902:39Tesla Q1 deliveries reported 184,800 vs. 173,000 estimateSquawk Box

2021/04/07, In this articleGOOGLFBPeter Thiel, co-founder and chairman of Palantir Technologies Inc., speaks during a news conference in Tokyo, Japan, on Monday, Nov. 18, 2019.Kiyoshi Ota | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesTech investor Peter Thiel criticized big U.S. technology companies for being too close to China at a Tuesday appearance at a virtual event held by the Richard Nixon Foundation.Thiel, who co-founded PayPal and sits on Facebook's board after making an early investment, is an outspoken voice in the technology investment world is known for contrarian opinions and conservative leanings. He's backed defense contractors like Palantir and publicly supported former President Donald Trump's 2016 campaign for president.On Wednesday, the Nixon session focused on China, and he was joined by former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and former National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien.Thiel criticized Google for its work on artificial intelligence with Chinese universities, partially because of conversations he claimed to have with company insiders, according to a transcript of the event reviewed by CNBC."Since everything in China is a civilian- military fusion, Google was effectively working with the Chinese military, not with the American military," Thiel said. He also sad that Google "insiders" told him that they worked with the Chinese because "they figured they might as well give the technology out the front door, because if they didn't give it – it would get stolen anyway."A Google spokesperson told CNBC: "These allegations are baseless. We do not work with the Chinese military. We are proud to continue our long history of work with the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense, in many areas including cybersecurity, recruiting and healthcare."Thiel had previously criticized Google in 2019, saying that the FBI and CIA should investigate Google and ask whether it had been compromised by Chinese spies.Thiel also said that Apple was unlikely to confront China because of its massive supply chain to manufacture iPhones and other products in the country. He noted that other big technology companies like Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft don't have as extensive business interests in the country, in some cases because the Chinese government has restricted what they can do there.He called for the U.S. to put a "lot of pressure" and scrutiny on Apple because of its labor supply chain in the country."Apple is probably the one that's structurally a real problem, because the whole iPhone supply chain gets made from China," Thiel said. "Apple is one that has real synergies with China."He also appeared to change his position on Bitcoin during the talk. Thiel has invested in Bitcoin companies and previously said he was "long bitcoin" and considers it the "digital equivalent of gold."On Tuesday, Thiel said that Bitcoin threatens the U.S. dollar."Even though I'm sort of a pro-crypto, pro-Bitcoin maximalist person, I do wonder whether at this point Bitcoin should also be thought in part of as a Chinese financial weapon against the U.S., where it threatens fiat money, but it especially threatens the U.S. dollar, and China wants to do things to weaken it, so China's long Bitcoin," Thiel said.

2021/04/12, In this articleAAPLApple is in the early stages of building a new Apple TV device with a built-in camera and speaker, according to Bloomberg.The newest Apple TV was released in 2016 and is long overdue for an update as it competes with TV products from Amazon, Google and Roku that have gained market share by routinely adding new features.A camera could enable services like FaceTime calls, which are already available on Macs, iPhones and iPads, and would let people video chat through their TVs. That would bring some features on a par with the Amazon Fire TV Cube, which supports webcams for video chats but doesn't have its own camera, or the Facebook Portal TV, which has a built-in camera. The speaker could help it double as a HomePod-like device to play music and speak with Siri.Bloomberg warned Apple could still decide to scrap the project.In the meantime, Apple is expected to announce a new Apple TV with an improved remote control and a faster processor at some point in 2021, Bloomberg said in September.Read more on Bloomberg.VIDEO2:1502:15A first look at Facebook Portal TV, which combines video chat and streamingTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/04/15, In this articleDAI-DEVIDEO1:1701:17Daimler CEO expects competition to intensify if tech giants start making carsGermany: Engine of EuropeLONDON — The chief executive of Germany's Daimler believes the automaker will face stiff opposition from tech giants like Google, Apple and Alibaba if they decide to launch their own electric vehicles.While the tech giants are yet to start selling their own cars, reports suggest they could soon launch products that combine hardware and software as the electric vehicle race heats up."There will be intense competition," Daimler CEO Ola Kallenius told CNBC's Annette Weisbach on Thursday when asked if he was concerned about digital companies entering the electric vehicles market."When an industry goes through transformation, I think it's natural that new players look at the industry," he said.Kallenius said Daimler will "look at what the brand stands for and take that into the next technological era," adding that the company will be able to build on its position if it does that well.His comments come as Mercedes Benz, which is owned by Daimler, launches an electric version of its flagship S-Class luxury sedan."It's kind of the start of a new era," Kallenius said, before adding that there's a lot of "curiosity" surrounding the new vehicle.Pricing for the luxury sedan will be announced in the summer but Kallenius said Daimler expects to make money on the vehicle from the moment it goes on sale.He added that the variable costs are higher on vehicles with a large electric battery than they are on vehicles with a traditional internal combustion engine."Our task during this decade of transformation is on the one hand to drive the variable costs down and restore in all our segments a margin parity," Kallenius said.Electric vehicle technology is "still in its infancy" and there's a "lot of work to do," he continued. "It will be scaled and we will have technological developments. I'm optimistic that we will be able to restore the margins that we have been used to."VIDEO1:0801:08Daimler CEO: 'I'm optimistic' company will restore marginsGermany: Engine of EuropeDaimler vs. TeslaShares of Daimler have skyrocketed over the last 12 months, up more than 173% year-on-year to trade at 75 euros ($89) per share on Thursday."We have positive momentum in our stock," Kallenius said, adding that it's down to improved financial performance and the company's "technology strategy for the future."However, Daimler's market cap has crashed to just 80 billion euros today from around 185 billion euros in 1998. Meanwhile, Tesla's market cap has soared to $694 billion."If we look at the total market caps of every single auto player in the world right now, you end up with an impressive number," Kallenius said.He added: "We need to make sure that the distribution of that total market cap moves more in our favor. That's what we're working on."Like other car manufacturers, Daimler's business has been negatively affected by the global chip shortage."We can sell more than we can produce at this moment," Kallenius

2021/04/08, Nineteen Eighty-Fortnite adEpic GamesOn Wednesday, Apple and Epic Games laid out in separate dueling legal filings what they consider to be the key facts and main legal issues ahead of an antitrust trial that's scheduled to start in May.Apple and Epic Games, best known for its game Fortnite, have been in a legal battle since last year after Epic Games tried to avoid Apple's 30% App Store fee through a server software update that skirted past Apple's App Store payments system. Apple responded by removing Fortnite from its App Store, effectively preventing iPhone users from playing the game.Top executives from both companies are expected to testify in-person in federal court in Oakland, California in a trial that is expected to last weeks.Apple executives including Apple CEO Tim Cook, Apple software SVP Craig Federighi, and former marketing head Phil Schiller may testify, according to court filings. Epic Games CEO and founder Tim Sweeney is also on the trial witness list.The late-night filings from each company are lengthy and packed with detail. Below you can find a bulleted summary of how each company will plan to make its case in court:Apple will argue that:Its 30% commission is essentially the same as other online software stores like Google Play or stores for video game consoles and Apple's fee has decreased over time.It faces competition both for iPhones as well as other platforms to play games.Its App Store policies have led to a boom in the software industry and result in greater safety and security for users.The App Store is a core, integrated feature of the iPhone, and that using Apple payments for digital purchases is a key feature.Epic will argue that:Apple forces consumers to bear high switching costs to stop using Apple products, locking them in.As Apple has accumulated more customers and locked them in, the importance of selling software to Apple customers has grown.Apple controls the only way to install software on an iPhone through the App Store.Apple uses its App Review process, which manually screens individual apps, for anti-competitive purposes, removing apps for business reasons under the pretext of security.Because some developers have chosen to raise iPhone software prices because of Apple's 30% fee, it causes consumers to pay more, and Fortnite is an example.Read Apple's filing here and Epic Games' filing here.

2021/03/31, Siri in iOS 14.AppleApple will add two new English language voices to its Siri voice assistant in an upcoming version of its iPhone software, the company said on Wednesday. Users will be able to choose from four voices for Siri, which will no longer default to a female voice in the U.S.The change is currently available in a beta version of iOS 14.5 that was released on Wednesday. Apple previously said the update will be released for everyone sometime in "early spring."Digital assistants with default female voices have been scrutinized by researchers in recent years, with critics saying the choices reflect a male-dominated artificial intelligence industry and reinforce stereotypes."We're excited to introduce two new Siri voices for English speakers and the option for Siri users to select the voice they want when they set up their device," an Apple spokesperson said in a statement. "This is a continuation of Apple's long-standing commitment to diversity and inclusion, and products and services that are designed to better reflect the diversity of the world we live in."Apple previously offered male voices as the default in some regions, as well as Australian and British accents, but it has defaulted to a woman's voice in the U.S. since its release in 2011.Amazon's Alexa and Google Assistant both currently default to feminine voices for English speakers but offer a range of alternative voice options.Apple's iOS 14.5 will be a major update for iPhones. In addition to the new voices, it will add the ability to unlock a phone with an Apple Watch, new emojis including one that depicts a vaccine, and will include a privacy change restricting access to a device ID that mobile advertisers use.VIDEO2:1002:10Facebook battles Apple over user privacy features in iOS updateTech

2021/03/30, Apple WWDC 2021AppleApple announced on Tuesday that its annual developers conference will begin June 7. Like last year, it'll be online-only due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The event runs through June 11 and is free for developers to attend.Apple typically unveils its new iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, Apple TV and Mac software on the first day of the WWDC, as the event is known. It sometimes uses the events to introduce new hardware products, too, especially those that will take advantage of the new software features.The event is focused around developers who build apps for Apple's products. However, it's often the first time the public gets a sneak peek at new features coming to their devices. Typically, the software announced in June is released in beta form before final launch in the fall.In 2020, Apple said it was transitioning from Intel processors to its own in-house chips. It announced the first computers to use its M1 processors that November. But, during WWDC 2020, it showed an example of how powerful its new chips are. It also announced iOS 14 for iPhones, iPadOS 14, watchOS 7, its Big Sur macOS update and new Apple TV software. In 2019, Apple used the event to unveil the Mac Pro, its most powerful computer ever, targeted at creative professionals such as movie editors.Reports have recently suggested Apple will announce new hardware products before WWDC 2021. New iPads are expected in April, for example. But, the company is also due to refresh its iMacs and other computers with its new processor. So, it might make sense for Apple to introduce those new products in June if they don't come earlier.VIDEO11:1811:18Users side with Apple in its privacy battle with Facebook: CNBC After HoursCNBC After HoursSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/03/31, LONDON — UBS on Wednesday upgraded Apple stock to a buy rating and raised its price target from $115 to $142 per share.Apple shares closed Tuesday's session at $119.90, down 9.64% year to date, with Big Tech having taken the brunt of the market jitters on rising bond yields.In a new research note, UBS gave three fundamental reasons why investors should snap up the tech giant's stock, as the Swiss lender upgraded it from a neutral rating.

2021/04/09, A picture taken on August 21, 2018 shows the research and development campus of cigarette and tobacco manufacturing company Philip Morris International, in Neuchatel, western Switzerland.FABRICE COFFRINI | AFP | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2021/04/08, HMD Global's new Nokia X20 smartphone.Ryan Browne | CNBCLONDON — The company behind the Nokia mobile brand refreshed its smartphone lineup on Thursday with a slew of new budget models, as it struggles to compete with established players like Samsung and Apple.Finnish start-up HMD Global has held the license to design and sell Nokia handsets since it bought the telecom group's mobile phone division from Microsoft in 2016. The firm has since released several smartphones and "dumb phones" — including revamped versions of nostalgic devices like the 8110 "banana phone" and 2720 flip phone.On Thursday, the company announced six new smartphones. They're divided into three different series: X, which is at the top of the range in terms of pricing and specs; G, which is slightly more affordable than X; and C, which is the cheapest of the bunch. Prices start at 75 euros ($89) for the Nokia C10, while the Nokia X20 is the standout device of all six, retailing at 349 euros, or about $415.With the X20 you get a 6.67-inch screen, four cameras on the back with a 64-megapixel main lens, and the ability to connect to superfast 5G internet. The X20 and less expensive X10, priced at 309 euros, are both powered by Qualcomm's Snapdragon 480 5G chipset, run on Google's Android operating system and come with three years of security updates, as well as a three-year warranty — one year more than that offered by the G and C series.The X20 also has a "dual sight" feature that lets you use two of the phone's cameras at the same time to capture different angles from a shot.Using the dual sight camera feature on the Nokia X20.Ryan Browne | CNBCIt won't include a charger in the box for sustainability reasons, arriving with a fully compostable case instead. The phone will ship in Europe next month, while U.S. availability is yet to be revealed.Fierce competitionNokia has struggled to gain significant traction in the smartphone market, due to fierce competition from Apple, Samsung and Chinese players like Huawei and Xiaomi. This is an issue that's dogged manufacturers like Sony and LG. The latter, once a top Android brand, said earlier this week it would quit the smartphone market."I think it will continue to be very hard for (Nokia) to be able to compete in the highest portfolios on the market — that's why they are now targeting lower price bands," Francisco Jeronimo, associate vice president for European devices at market research firm IDC, told CNBC."On the other hand, they have been working quite hard to penetrate the B2B (business-to-business) market, which is a very good opportunity for them because there are not many players that offer an appealing portfolio."The Nokia X20.Ryan Browne | CNBCNokia-branded smartphones accounted for just 0.6% of the market last year, according to IDC data, shipping fewer handsets than LG and China's Honor. HMD has, however, performed well in feature phones — also known as "dumb phones" — commanding a 16% share of that market in 2020.HMD is hoping to branch out into enterprise sales and new services to find other sources of income. The company, which is financially backed by Nokia, Google and other big investors, launched a SIM card with global data roaming called HMD Connect last year. It managed to break even after prioritizing online sales in the coronavirus pandemic.HMD is also launching a new mobile network in the U.K. called HMD Mobile. It will operate as a mobile virtual network operator, or MVNO, meaning it has to rely on another telecom firm's network infrastructure. Bundles will start from £6.50 ($9) per month. It won't launch with 5G right off the bat but the firm said it's working on making the service "5G ready."

2021/03/19, NEW YORK, NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 20: Apple CEO Tim Cook greets customers at the grand reopening of Apple's flagship Apple Fifth Avenue retail store on September 20, 2019 in New York City.Taylor Hill | WireImage | Getty ImagesThe digital advertising world is scrambling to prepare for a seismic change when Apple updates its iPhone software in the coming weeks.The move, called App Tracking Transparency, or ATT, will force app makers to ask permission before they can collect a unique identifier on every iOS device called an identifier for advertisers, or IDFA. A significant proportion of users are expected to say no. Today, developers and advertisers use the IDFA to target mobile ads and measure how effective they are.Apple has consistently said that the change to its platform, announced last June, is about privacy.However, digital advertising professionals say there could be a side benefit for Apple: Increased power over its App Store, giving Apple more control over the kinds of apps that get popular and gross millions through the store.In particular, it could make it harder for app makers to draw consumers to download their apps through in-app advertisements. That could help Apple instead guide consumers to the apps that it chooses to highlight in the App Store for its own business purposes. For instance, Apple could highlight more games that charge through subscriptions, where Apple gets an ongoing cut, and fewer casual social games that monetize heavily through in-app purchases, which could detract from the overall iOS gaming experience and harm Apple's brand.The move could also boost Apple's own Search Ads, which are ads for app downloads that appear directly inside the App Store.Apple's App Store and advertising business are both reported as part of its services business, which the company has highlighted to investors as a growth engine. It generated revenue of $53.8 billion in fiscal 2020, up 16% from the previous year."Apple has been able to stake out the moral high ground, I think, claiming that they're focused on user privacy. But in reality, they really surrendered app discovery to and merchandising to Facebook and Google. What I see them doing is trying to get that control back," said Brian Bowman, CEO of Consumer Acquisition, a digital advertising firm focusing on user acquisition.When contacted for comment, Apple reiterated its commitment to privacy."We believe privacy is a basic human right and that users should have transparency and choice about how their data is collected and used. We've invested in privacy-preserving technologies for decades, with Intelligent Tracking Prevention in Safari, Privacy Labels on the App Store, Sign in with Apple, and App Tracking Transparency. Our privacy features apply to all developers — including Apple. But users won't see App Tracking Transparency prompts from Apple because we don't track users."How app install ads workFor years, many of the apps that have topped Apple's App Store charts have been supercharged by a marketing strategy designed to target users who are most likely to spend.Companies such as Facebook, Google, and TikTok sell app install ads. They usually show up within other apps as a pop-up or an item inside a feed. When users click on the ad, they're brought to a page in the App Store to download the advertised app.App install ads are a core part of the user acquisition strategy for many companies, especially e-commerce companies and casual games that rely on getting a small fraction of users to buy lots of add-ons within the game. These users are sometimes known as "whales." An estimate from AppsFlyer, which makes advertising software for app makers, said app makers will spend $96.5 billion on app install ads in 2021, or about a third of total mobile spending on ads. That's because they're effective. Sensor Tower, an analytics firm monitoring app stores, published a study on Thursday finding that referrals from other apps drove 20% of new app installs on the App Store in 2020. The only larger source was direct searches on the App Store, which accounted for 59% of installs.A mockup of the popup window iPhone users will see before using an app that tracks their data. This image was provided by Apple.AppleApp install ads are often sold by price-per-install, ranging from pennies to tens of dollars. Typically, the ad buyers will estimate how much a customer in a given demographic might spend throughout their time using the app and make a simple mathematical judgment. If the price-per-install is less than the estimated lifetime value of the people those ads are targeting, then the app maker buys as many of those ads as it can afford.The ATT change, and other Apple privacy tweaks, threaten this model by drastically reducing the amount of information that marketers have about how effective their ads are. Without that information, app marketers can't tell if they are getting the right people to install their apps."When you look at the companies who are investing $6 [million] to $20 million a month, every month for 18 months to get a payback, all that stuff becomes opaque very, very quickly, when Apple flips that switch," Bowman said.Casual gaming apps, which often appear on Apple's Top Grossing charts, are most likely to be hurt. Games are a huge part of Apple's App Store business, representing 65.8% of spending on the platform, according to a Sensor Tower estimate.For games, referrals are the top source for downloads, driving 38% of first-time installs in 2020 — more than people directly searching through the App Store, according to Sensor Tower."The primary growth strategy for most, if not all, mobile gaming companies is paid ads. There aren't really any gaming companies that don't utilize them," said Eric Seufert, the author of Mobile Dev Memo, who has a background in user acquisition for gaming companies.Unity, a company that makes gaming and advertising software for small developers to build on, warned in February that the IDFA change could change the "way mobile game developers acquire customers and how they optimize lifetime customer value."Andre Kempe of Admiral Media, a marketing firm focused on mobile app publishers, believes that Apple's change could force gamemakers to change the way their games work. Instead of relying on a few huge spenders, they might have to target larger numbers of people to spend smaller amounts."Once they realize, okay, I need to make money with this, then some product manager would say, okay, we need to put a payment screen somewhere in the first level, which you haven't seen before, so the user experience will change a little bit," said Kempe.Yes, Apple sells adsThere are more than 1.8 million apps on the App Store, and app marketers say that apps can't rely on hoping people discover them on the App Store, or waiting around for Apple to feature them."It's the tyranny of over-choice, because you go in there, and you can access and download anything for the most part on the free-to-play side, from a game perspective," said T.S. Kelly, head of analytics at Carat, a media agency.Apple prefers to promote elegant, beautiful apps inside the App Store that fit with its brand image — not the casual games that are skilled at advertising."If Apple hurts advertising and makes it much less efficient, then developers do become more dependent on Apple for exposure," Seufert said.But there is a way to pay for better placement in the App Store: Search ads.Although tiny compared with Apple's App Store revenue, which hit an estimated $21.7 billion last year according to Sensor Tower, its ads business is growing.In January, Apple's CFO Luca Maestri said that the company hit a record in terms of advertising revenue. The company hasn't been more specific. The Wall Street Journal reported in 2018 that it delivered about $1 billion in revenue per year.Apple's search ads have an advantage over other ad networks because Apple doesn't need to do cross-site tracking to identify people likely to buy — with search ads, the user already has signaled intent to download a particular type of app.As app-install ads become less effective, more app makers may be driven to buy Apple's search ads."Many advertisers will not accept the fact that they are kind of blind on iOS and Facebook," said Kempe, and instead will come to rely on the more detailed information Apple can give them.Apple called out this ads business in its last earnings call, while once again emphasizing privacy."The search advertising business is going well, there's lots of intent from search," Apple CEO Tim Cook said in a call with analysts in January. "We do it in a very private kind of manner, observing great privacy policies and so forth."

2021/04/01, A woman wearing a face mask as a preventive measure against the spread of the COVID-19 Coronavirus, runs with Cruise Ships docked in the background at the port of Long Beach, California on April 11, 2020.Apu Gomes | AFP | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2021/03/31, Harley-Davidson's just-introduced 2021 models include the CVO lineup with the company's most advanced audio and infotainment options, as well as its latest braking, steering and safety features.Source: Harley-DavidsonHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2021/03/16, The App Store logo displayed on a smartphone.Igor Golovniov | SOPA Images | LightRocket via Getty ImagesNew estimates from analytics firm Sensor Tower suggest neither Apple nor Google is giving up a substantial amount of revenue by changing the fees they charge developers.The report follows changes Google announced on Tuesday when it said it plans to change the way it charges app makers on its Google Play app store, following a similar move Apple made in December.Beginning July 1, Android developers will be charged 15% of the first $1 million in digital sales through the Google Play app store for Android phones. Google takes 30% of sales after that. Apple's program is similar. As of Jan. 1, smaller companies can apply for a reduced fee of 15% from Apple. The total fee jumps back to 30% when the company surpasses $1 million in App Store sales.Neither company is leaving much money on the table with their fee reductions, compared to the scale of their app store businesses, according to a new estimate from app analytics firm Sensor Tower:If the 15% fee schedule on revenue up to $1 million had been in place on Google Play in 2020, Google would have missed out on $587 million, or about 5% of Sensor Tower's estimate of $11.6 billion in Google Play fees for the year.If Apple's program had been in place for 2020, Sensor Tower estimates that it would have missed out on $595 million, or about 2.7% of its estimated $21.7 billion in App Store fees in 2020.The Sensor Tower estimate underscores that apps are a winner-take-most business and that while the changes from Apple's App Store and the Google Play store will help a substantial number of smaller app makers, the companies that make the most from the store will still pay close to 30% of digital sales.That was the point made by Epic Games CEO Tim Sweeney on Tuesday in response to Google's news. Epic Games is currently suing Apple and Google, seeking to make changes to their app stores to allow for third-party payment processors as well as other changes."It's a self-serving gambit: the far majority of developers will get this new 15% rate and thus be less inclined to fight, but the far majority of *revenue* is in apps with the 30% rate," Sweeney tweeted.Apple and Google are facing increased scrutiny from lawmakers and regulators over their app stores.Both would have been affected by a failed North Dakota bill that would have required app stores to enable software developers to use their own payment processing software and avoid fees charged by Apple and Google. A similar bill passed the Arizona House last week and is still waiting to be debated by the state Senate.Apple frames its program as a way to help small business developers. Google said on Tuesday that "helping developers build sustainable businesses is a core part of Google Play's mission."Neither company releases exact app store sales, but Apple announces payouts to developers on a regular basis, which can be used to roughly calculate the size of Apple's App Store.Apple reported $54.76 billion in services revenue in fiscal 2020, or about 19% of its total sales. App Store fees are only one part of Apple's services business, which includes subscriptions, warranties and other products. An Apple spokesperson didn't immediately respond for comment on the Sensor Tower report.Alphabet includes Google Play revenue under other revenue sources, which posted $21.7 billion in sales in 2020. That figure also includes Google's hardware business, subscriptions to YouTube and other products and services.Google didn't immediately have a comment on the report.VIDEO5:1505:15Bigger states could impose laws against app store commissions: Basecamp co-founderSquawk Alley

2021/03/18, In this articleFBAAPLFacebook co-founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies before the House Financial Services Committee in the Rayburn House Office Building on Capitol Hill October 23, 2019 in Washington, DC. Zuckerberg testified about Facebook's proposed cryptocurrency Libra, how his company will handle false and misleading information by political leaders during the 2020 campaign and how it handles its users’ data and privacy.Chip Somodevilla | Getty Images News | Getty ImagesFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Thursday said he is confident the social media company "will be able to manage through" Apple's upcoming planned privacy update to iOS 14, which will make it easier for iPhone and iPad users to block companies from tracking their activity to target ads."We'll be in a good position," Zuckerberg said Thursday afternoon in Josh Constine's PressClub Clubhouse room.Apple's upcoming privacy changes will inform users about device ID tracking and ask them if they want to allow it. The tracking is based on a unique device identifier on every iPhone and iPad called the IDFA. Companies that sell mobile advertisements use this ID to help target ads and estimate their effectiveness.Apple has said that the change will roll out early this spring.Zuckerberg explained that the change could benefit Facebook if more businesses decide to sell goods directly through Facebook and Instagram."It's possible that we may even be in a stronger position if Apple's changes encourage more businesses to conduct more commerce on our platforms by making it harder for them to use their data in order to find the customers that would want to use their products outside of our platforms," Zuckerberg said.Zuckerberg's comments are the most optimistic statements Facebook has delivered about how the looming Apple changes may impact the company's advertising business.In July 2020, Facebook CFO David Wehner said that Apple's iOS 14 changes could hurt the social media company's ability to target ads to users, and in August 2020, the company said the changes could lead to a more than 50% drop in its Audience Network advertising business, which represents less than 10% of the company's net revenue. The company told investors during its fourth-quarter earnings in January that the impact of Apple's changes could start to affect Facebook's business late in the first quarter.Facebook has prepared for the looming Apple changes by introducing more commerce products.Most notably, the social media company in 2020 introduced Facebook Shops and Instagram Shops. These features make it possible for brands to list their product catalogs directly on Facebook's most popular apps, and sell goods directly on Facebook and Instagram.Zuckerberg on Thursday said that already Facebook has 1 million active shops on its services and 250 million people using shops actively."Compared to the early conversations we had about how people would use this across Facebook and Instagram and our product, I think this is something that's well on track to be something that's going to be increasingly important to people," Zuckerberg said.VIDEO18:5818:58The big, messy business of content moderation on Facebook, Twitter, YouTubeTech

2021/03/17, Apple Magic Keyboard for iPad ProTodd Haselton | CNBCApple could release new iPads as soon as April, according to a report in Bloomberg.The new iPads will be part of Apple's high-end iPad Pro line and could feature improved cameras, a faster processor, and a new type of Mini-LED display on the largest iPad with improved brightness and contrast.Otherwise, they will look similar to the current 11-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pros, according to the report. Apple's current 11-inch iPad Pro costs $799 and the larger model starts at $999.The report comes as Apple's iPad business has been boosted by people looking for computers to work and play from home during the Covid-19 pandemic. During the most recent holiday quarter, Apple reported $8.4 billion in iPad sales, an increase of more than 42% increase from the previous year.Apple typically releases most of its new products, including iPhones, in the fall, but sometimes delivers less significant product updates during a launch event in the spring. The Cupertino-based giant has not announced a spring launch event this year.In recent years, Apple has been positioning its iPad Pro models as laptop replacements, including introducing mouse support and keyboard accessories like the $299 Magic Keyboard.

2021/04/01, Apple's new California Flats solar farmCourtesy of AppleApple will use Tesla's Megapack at its new battery-based renewable energy storage facility, the smartphone-maker confirmed to CNBC on Thursday.Apple announced Wednesday it's building a battery-based solar energy storage facility in California. The company said the facility will be capable of storing 240 megawatt-hours of energy, enough to power more than 7,000 homes for one day. The setup will include 85 of Tesla's Megapack battery energy storage systems, which were first announced in 2019. The energy will be used to help power the company's headquarters.Tesla, most known for its electric vehicles, has been building out its solar power business over the past few years.The company entered the solar business in 2016 when it acquired SolarCity for $2.6 billion. However, the solar segment still does not break out revenue on its own. "Energy generation and storage" made up 6% of the company's total revenue in 2020, according to its end-of-year financial filing, though it grew by 30% from 2019.The Verge first reported on the connection between the two tech giants, pointing to records submitted by the Monterey County Board of Supervisors.Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment.— CNBC's Lora Kolodny contributed to this report.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2021/03/11, Attendees wait for a product announcement event to begin at the Apple Cupertino, California, headquarters on September 12, 2018.Noah Berger | AFP | Getty ImagesApple sued a former employee in federal court in California on Thursday, alleging that Simon Lancaster, who worked as a product design architect, passed trade secrets to a member of the media, and asked for favorable coverage of companies he was involved with in return. In its lawsuit, Apple did not name the media correspondent nor the details that Lancaster allegedly leaked.The lawsuit highlights Apple's approach to building products in complete secrecy. While all technology firms closely guard intellectual property, Apple's culture deeply emphasizes it and the company has developed a need-to-know system called "disclosure" where often employees on a project don't have knowledge of other parts of the project to prevent leaks.According to the suit, a reporter reached out to Lancaster in 2018 and the two communicated over the next year before Lancaster left Apple in November 2019. During that time, Lancaster provided the reporter with information about unreleased products, including internal documents, according to the lawsuit. At one point, Lancaster told another contact that the reporter would cover a company he was involved with if it secured $1 million in funding. In November 2019, Arris Composites announced that it had hired Lancaster. Apple considers details about unreleased products to be important trade secrets because a core part of the company's marketing is aimed at creating "surprise and delight" when new products are revealed at closely choreographed launch events. The lawsuit gives a peek into the secrecy conditions in which Apple designers and engineers produce new products: Some takeaways from the lawsuit: Apple product teams work in complete secrecy, often for years at a time, and at significant personal burden.Secret Apple information is only available to employees and contractors after they sign a "strict" confidentiality agreement. Even inside Apple, employees are restricted about what they can learn about through a system that requires them to be "disclosed" on a project. Employees can only become "disclosed" on a secret project if a disclosed employee asks to get them access and cites a business reason for the disclosure.Apple has an internal tool to manage disclosures across the company.All employees on secret projects have to attend security trainings which remind them that they cannot even tell their immediate family members about the secrets they're working on. Any person at an Apple facility without a company badge must be escorted by an Apple employee. Apple believes that competitors start working on their own products after reading reports about upcoming Apple products.Apple believes that leaks about upcoming products may reduce customer demand for what's currently on the market and reduce morale on the teams working on them."Tens of thousands of Apple employees work tirelessly every day on new products, services and features in the hopes of delighting our customers and empowering them to change the world. Stealing ideas and confidential information undermines their efforts, hurting Apple and our customers," an Apple spokesperson said in a statement. "We take very seriously this individual's deliberate theft of our trade secrets, violation of our ethics and our policies, all for personal gain. We will do all we can to protect the innovations we hold so dear."Messages sent to Lancaster and a representative for Arris Composites asking for comment were not immediately returned.

2021/03/09, In this articleAAPLApple CEO Tim Cook delivers a keynote during the European Union's privacy conference at the EU Parliament in Brussels, Belgium October 24, 2018.Yves Herman | ReutersLONDON — France Digitale, a French start-up lobby group, filed a complaint against Apple with the nation's privacy regulator, arguing that the iPhone maker's iOS 14 mobile operating system may be in breach of European Union rules.The campaign group, which has around 2,000 members, filed a seven-page complaint, seen by CNBC, with the Commission Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés on Tuesday.It argues that Apple may be collecting user data for ad tracking services without explicitly asking permission, and it is calling on the CNIL to investigate. Specifically, it thinks that Apple has its "Personalized Ads" option on by default on iPhones with iOS 14 installed.Apple said the allegations in the complaint are false."Our suspicion is that this is a very severe breach of our privacy regulations," France Digitale CEO Nicolas Brien told CNBC, adding that Apple could be breaching Europe's General Data Protection Regulation and the Electronic Privacy Directive, also known as the e-Privacy directive."Our problem here is that you don't get the choice to consent," said Brien. "It's automatically on and that's strictly forbidden by GDPR and e-Privacy."An Apple spokesperson told CNBC: "The allegations in the complaint are patently false and will be seen for what they are, a poor attempt by those who track users to distract from their own actions and mislead regulators and policymakers."They added: "Privacy is built into the ads we sell on our platform with no tracking. We hold ourselves to a higher standard by allowing users to opt out of Apple's limited first-party data use for personalized advertising, a feature that makes us unique."France Digitale has also criticized Apple for its App Store practices in recent weeks, saying that they harm start-ups.Apple only lets developers release iPhone and iPad apps through its iOS smartphone platform. The firm has a rigorous approval process for iOS apps and has faced criticism about fees of up to 30% which it charges on in-app transactions.Last year, the EU Commission launched antitrust investigations into Apple's App Store rules and its Apple Pay mobile wallet. Epic Games, creator of the popular video game Fortnite, has been particularly vocal in its criticism of Apple. At the time, Apple said it was "disappointing" that the European Commission is listening to "baseless complaints" from a small number of businesses.The U.K.'s competition regulator launched its own antitrust investigation into Apple on March 4. The Competition and Markets Authority said it would investigate Apple over complaints from software developers about the tech giant's App Store.Apple said it would work with the CMA to address its concerns. "We believe in thriving and competitive markets where any great idea can flourish," a spokesperson for the company said earlier this month.Different rules for Big Tech?While Europe is clamping down on America's Big Tech firms, Brien still thinks companies like Apple are getting a relatively easy ride.He claims that Apple is not under the same level of privacy scrutiny as French start-ups and other small companies."We are getting investigated all the time," said Brien. "We need that to stop. Tech regulations should not be primarily aimed at start-ups."A spokesperson for the CNIL confirmed to CNBC that it had received the complaint and that it planned to investigate.Brien said he thinks privacy regulators in other countries may also investigate Apple when they learn about the feature France Digitale has taken issue with."This is something huge and we do believe it's an extremely important case," he said. "We're talking here about the most valuable tech company and if they are not playing by the rules, who else has got to be?"Apple has positioned itself as a company that takes privacy more seriously than Silicon Valley neighbors Google and Facebook.

2021/03/10, The Apple logo is displayed at the Nasdaq MarketSite just before the opening bell in New York on Thursday, Aug. 25, 2011.Scott Eells | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe recent sell-off of Apple stock has presented a perfect buying opportunity for investors, according to Wedbush analyst Dan Ives.Apple shareholders have dumped stock in the company over the last month or so after the iPhone maker came off a historic December quarter. As a result, Apple's share price fell from a high of $143.16 on Jan. 26 to $116.36 on Monday. Apple was last seen trading at $120.74 at around 10:05 a.m. ET on Wednesday."The recent sell-off creates a golden buying opportunity," Ives said in a note.Here, Wedbush's Ives outlines why he believes Apple's "supercycle party" could put the company on course for a $3 trillion market cap.

2021/03/11, In this articleAAPLVIDEO3:0903:09After Apple falls 17% from records, investors share whether it's a buy yetTrading NationApple's recent fall from grace is putting traders in a bind.The stock's nearly 12% decline from its late January peak has set its market cap back over $365 billion, larger than the individual market caps of Bank of America, Disney and Nike.Though the stock climbed about 1.5% in early Thursday trading as part of a broader tech rebound, one money manager said Wednesday he didn't see the stock moving significantly higher from here."I think it either kind of stagnates in here or goes lower," Quint Tatro, chief investment officer at Joule Financial, told CNBC's "Trading Nation" in an interview Wednesday."It really has been very profitable in the past to be a buyer of Apple when it's fundamentally attractive, and believe it or not, there's been many times over the years where that's been the case," he said. "Unfortunately, today and right now is not one of those times."His chief concerns were tied to the company's valuation — he noted the stock was trading at roughly 7 times price to sales and 30 times price to book value "after basically levering up their balance sheet" — and its growth projections.Apple slashed its iPhone orders by 20% for the first half of 2021, according to reports published Wednesday in Nikkei Asia."Their growth rate for next year is really not all that attractive," Tatro said. "There's just better opportunities out there right now and we would not venture into this name looking for a bargain."Michael Binger, the president of Gradient Investments, took the other side of the trade."After this tech sell-off we've had, Apple is a buy," Binger said in the same "Trading Nation" interview."They cut production 20% in the first half of the year, but they're continuing to keep their full-year production going at close to 12%," he said. "I think 12% growth in iPhone on a year-over-year basis is pretty darn good. We would be a buyer."Though Apple does trade at a lofty price-to-earnings multiple, not many in the Wall Street community use earnings to value technology stocks anymore, Binger said, calling Apple a "core holding.""Twenty percent of Apple's business model going forward is going to be from recurring revenue in the services area. I think that's going to help hold that multiple in the mid- to high 20s," Binger said."I look at various tailwinds for Apple. I see 5G adoption. I still think we're going to see an iPhone 12 supercycle. I see wearables gaining traction," he said. "I think all these things are tails for Apple. So, we own it here. We continue to own it. If you don't own it, I would add it right here. We think Apple is a buy at these levels."Disclosure: Joule Financial and Gradient Investments own shares of Apple.Disclaimer

2021/03/10, In this articleAAPLMUNICH, GERMANY - SEPTEMBER 29: Tim Cook, CEO Apple, during the Oktoberfest 2019 at Kaeferschaenke beer tent.Gisela Schober | German Select | Getty ImagesApple has announced that it plans to create a major new chip lab in Munich as part of a 1 billion euro ($1.19 billion) plus investment into Germany over the next three years.The Cupertino firm announced on Wednesday that it will open a new 30,000-square-meter facility in central Munich's Karlstrasse later next year.Apple said it will make Munich its "European Silicon Design Center" and hire hundreds of new employees in the Bavarian capital.Apple claimed the new facility will be Europe's largest research and development site for mobile wireless semiconductors and software, suggesting it will eclipse similar sites like Arm's in Cambridge and NXP's in Eidenhoven.The announcement comes as the world is struggling through a chip shortage that has inflicted pain on the automotive sector and other industries.  The global chip shortage has worried governments around the world. Semiconductors are used in almost all electronic devices, from laptops and mobile phones to the brake sensors in our cars.Engineers at Apple's new facility will focus on 5G and future wireless technologies, Apple said, adding that they'll also develop modems for Apple products.VIDEO9:2609:26How the global computer chip shortage happenedTechApple has 4,000 staff across Germany and it already employs 1,500 engineers across seven offices in Munich. It's possible that some of them will be consolidated under one roof when the new building is ready.Apple said its existing engineers in Munich work on areas like power management design, application processors and wireless technologies. Together, they have improved performance and efficiency on iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, and Mac with the M1 chip, it added."I couldn't be more excited for everything our Munich engineering teams will discover — from exploring the new frontiers of 5G technology, to a new generation of technologies that bring power, speed, and connectivity to the world," said Tim Cook, Apple's CEO, in a statement."Munich has been a home to Apple for four decades, and we're grateful to this community and to Germany for being a part of our journey."Apple claims it has spent over 15 billion euros with over 700 companies in Germany over the last five years including chip maker Infineon and battery firm Varta.Nathan Benaich, a venture capital investor who has backed chip start-up Graphcore, told CNBC that the new chip lab is a strong move by Apple and he's bullish."I think vertical integration for Apple means greater control over their supply chain and margins, but most importantly the flexibility to design exactly what they need to power the products they want to build," he said. "In contrast to having to build with what is available or convince suppliers to do so."Munich is one of Europe's leading tech hubs and other tech giants use it for R&D — Google employs around 1,000 people in the city. It's also home to car giants like BMW and Audi, which have thousands of engineers who Apple may look to hire for its reported Apple car project.On Tuesday, the European Union announced plans to become less reliant on technologies traditionally manufactured outside of the bloc, such as the ramping up of chip production.Apple isn't the only one setting up new chip labs in Europe, which is home to some of the world's top universities. Chinese tech giant Huawei got the green light last June to build a £1 billion chip research facility in Cambridge, England.

2021/03/16, In this articleAAPLVIDEO3:0103:01Lucid Motors CEO on potential Apple vehicle: 'I welcome the competition'Mad Money with Jim CramerLucid Motors CEO Peter Rawlinson on Tuesday told CNBC that the electric vehicle newcomer has no issue facing potential competition from one of the the most valuable companies on the planet.Apple, which commands a $2.1 trillion valuation, is rumored to be interested in putting an electrified car on the road."I welcome the competition from a company like Apple," Rawlinson said in a "Mad Money" interview. "Ultimately, you know, this is a technology race. Tesla recognizes that and Lucid recognizes that, and I think that's what differentiates so many of the traditional car companies."Speculation about a vehicle project, a so-called Apple Car, has been swirling for years. Reports about a car under development or a potential production deal with Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors have ultimately proven to be fruitless thus far.Should Apple enter the car market, it will play in a global auto and mobility market that's worth roughly $10 trillion, a substantial opportunity compared to the $715 billion smartphone market, according to data from Mordor Intelligence.Rawlinson suggests there's enough space for his company to compete."There's always room for new entries, and don't ... underestimate the [car] market, because this isn't a market for EVs. There's no such thing as an EV market," said Rawlinson, formerly of Tesla. "This is a market for cars and EVs will penetrate and completely fill that."Lucid plans to deliver its first car, the all-electric Air luxury sedan, in the second half of the year. The Lucid Air will be available across multiple price points, ranging from $69,900 for the Pure model to $161,500 for the Dream Edition.The Newark, California-based manufacturer plans to have an electric SUV called Project Gravity ready by 2023, along with other sedans, SUVs and vehicles to be produced within the next decade.The privately held company announced last month that it would go public through a SPAC, or special purpose acquisition company, in what would be the largest blank-check merger involving an EV company.VIDEO8:0908:09Lucid Motors CEO on plans to start production of Lucid Air luxury electric sedanMad Money with Jim CramerQuestions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2021/03/18, In this articleAMZNApple CEO Tim Cook speaks during the Time 100 Summit event on April 23, 2019, in New York.Don Emmert | AFP | Getty ImagesApple CEO Tim Cook urged lawmakers on Thursday to pass immigration reform that would create a path to citizenship for immigrants known as "Dreamers."Cook issued the statement on behalf of the Business Roundtable, an influential group of prominent corporate leaders. Cook serves as the group's immigration committee chair.The statement continues Cook's advocacy on behalf of Dreamers and follows comments from Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, who praised the bill on Wednesday."Dreamers have been on the frontlines of fighting the pandemic as healthcare workers, of caring for our communities, and of working in the disciplines and industries that will help America emerge stronger on the other side of COVID-19," Cook wrote.The Business Roundtable also called for additional reform beyond the Dream and Promise Act to fix the country's "broken immigration system."Dreamers are undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. when they were children. The Dream Act would create a path to citizenship for about 2.5 million people, according to its authors. Democrats in the House are expected to move forward with the bill this week.Cook in particular has been outspoken about Dreamers. On Thursday, he said that Apple employs 450 Dreamers in a tweet. In 2019, Cook co-authored a friend-of-the-court brief filed with the Supreme Court with detailed narratives of multiple Dreamer Apple employees. At the time, the court was debating whether the Trump administration's decision to terminate the Obama-era program that shields Dreamers was legal."We do so here to stress that not only does Apple care as a company, but we care as leaders, colleagues, and human beings," Cook wrote at the time. "This is an issue we feel to our core."The full Business Roundtable statement is reproduced below:Dreamers—who came to America as children and who know it as their only home—make invaluable contributions to America and certainly to companies like ours. Dreamers have been on the frontlines of fighting the pandemic as healthcare workers, of caring for our communities, and of working in the disciplines and industries that will help America emerge stronger on the other side of COVID-19. As we work to reinvigorate the U.S. economy, we need their continued contributions as equal partners in the American story, and we urge Members on both sides of the aisle to vote in support of the American Dream and Promise Act to help make that possible.The vast majority of Americans believe that standing up for Dreamers should be a priority. Once the American Dream and Promise Act moves forward, the Business Roundtable urges policymakers to prioritize bipartisan and practical solutions to fix our broken immigration system, enforce the rule of law and respond to the pressing challenges we face.

2021/03/29, Xiaomi Launched the Mi 11 Ultra smartphone at an event on Monday, March 29. The Chinese smartphone giant is hoping the Mi 11 Ultra will help it push into the premium segment of the market.XiaomiGUANGZHOU, China — Xiaomi launched a slew of new smartphones on Monday, with one high-end device aimed at international markets as it looks to push into the premium segment and fill the void left by rival Huawei's troubles.The devices are:Mi 11 Lite and Mi 11 Lite 5GMi 11 ProMi 11 UltraThe Mi 11 Ultra is the smartphone aimed at international markets in the premium segment. It will start at 5,999 yuan ($914) and go up to 6,999 yuan ($1,066) for a higher spec version. Xiaomi has not yet said what markets it will be available in outside of China.With the Mi 11 Ultra, Xiaomi is entering into stiff competition with leaders Samsung and Apple, but also Chinese rivals including Oppo and Vivo, which have looked to boost their high-end credentials and expand into more mature markets such as Europe in the last few years.VIDEO3:3803:38Xiaomi's tailwinds could last till next year: StrategistSquawk Box Asia"Early last year, we started to move into the high range market," Xiaomi CEO Lei Jun said at a launch event on Monday. "I think we have found a foothold in the high-range market." The CEO spent a lot of time talking about the camera on the Mi 11 Ultra which boasts three sensors. The camera takes up a large amount of real estate on the back of the phone. Lei talked up the low-light photography and zoom as well as the algorithm behind the camera.Other features include:A 6.81-inch display5G connectivityQualcomm Snapdragon 888 chipset inside"These days, the camera makes the phone. Xiaomi knows it and went all-out with the Ultra," Bryan Ma, vice president of client devices research at IDC, told CNBC."Xiaomi may be thumping its chest after tonight's launch, but the competition from rivals is so intense that it can't sit comfortably for long."Huawei voidXiaomi will likely be hoping to take advantage of some of Huawei's issues in the smartphone market that have come as a result of U.S. sanctions on the telecommunications equipment giant.In 2019, Huawei was put on a U.S. blacklist known as the Entity List which restricted American firms from exporting technology to the Chinese company. Google had to cut ties with Huawei meaning the Chinese firm could not use the Android operating system on its devices. That's not a big deal in China where Google services such as Gmail and search are blocked. But overseas, consumers are used to using such apps.And Washington also moved to cut Huawei off from the chips it needed for its smartphones.The U.S. maintains Huawei is a national security threat, a claim the Chinese company has repeatedly denied.Xiaomi has also faced scrutiny from the U.S. The administration of former President Donald Trump designated Xiaomi a "Communist Chinese military companies" or CCMC. That restricted American investors from buying shares or related securities of Xiaomi. But a judge temporarily blocked that move after Xiaomi brought a lawsuit against the U.S. Xiaomi said at the time that it was "not owned, controlled or affiliated with the Chinese military."Huawei saw its global shipments fall 41% year-on-year in the fourth quarter, according to Counterpoint Research. In Europe alone, shipments plunged 62%.Xiaomi, Oppo and Vivo all saw double-digit smartphone shipment growth in the fourth quarter of 2020, according to Canalys. Xiaomi was the third-biggest smartphone maker by market share during the same period.But Xiaomi may not be the best positioned in the premium segment versus some of its rivals, Neil Shah, research director at Counterpoint Research, said."Xiaomi is doing well to fill to the void left by Huawei in low-to-mid segments especially in Europe, Latin America." Shah said. "The premium segment is still up for grabs. While Samsung and Apple are very well positioned to capture these volumes, among Chinese brands OnePlus & Oppo should be better beneficiaries."Shah said that Xiaomi's Chinese rivals have ramped up marketing and distribution investments overseas.

2021/03/11, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.Andrew Caballero-Reynolds | AFP | Getty ImagesFor the past few weeks, Facebook has been running an ad campaign in defense of personalized advertisements, arguing that targeted ads are key to the success of small businesses.The catalyst for the campaign has been an ongoing battle between the social media company and Apple. The battle focuses on a unique device identifier on every iPhone and iPad called the IDFA. Facebook and others that sell mobile advertisements rely on this ID to help target ads to users and estimate how effective they are.With an upcoming update to iOS 14, apps that want to use IDFA will have to ask users to opt in to tracking when the app is first launched. If users opt out, it will make these ads a lot less effective. Facebook has warned investors that these looming changes could hurt its advertising business as soon as this quarter.But while Facebook has been loud about how harmful this change will be, rivals like Twitter and Snap have said the change will be good for user privacy and could even benefit their businesses. Google, the leading advertiser on the web, has not said nearly as much about the changes, while simultaneously introducing its own privacy-related changes to its Chrome browser and pledging to stop tracking individual users entirely.CNBC spoke with a handful of former Facebook employees who have worked on the company's ad products and businesses and explained why the social media giant is making such a loud fuss about Apple's upcoming change. How the change hurts FacebookMost critically at stake for Facebook is what's known as view-through conversions. This metric is used by ad-tech companies to measure how many users saw an ad, did not immediately click on it, but later made a purchase related to that ad. Think of view-through conversions like this: You're tapping through your Instagram stories and you see an ad for a pair of jeans. You don't tap the bottom of the ad for more information because you're busy checking out what your friends are up to, but the jeans were cute. A few days later, you go on Google, search for the jeans you saw on Instagram and buy them.After the purchase is made, the retailer records the IDFA of the user who bought the jeans and shares it with Facebook, which can determine whether the IDFA matches with a user who saw an ad for the jeans. This shows the retailer that their Facebook ad worked.Losing that type of measurement could be a big blow for Facebook. If advertisers are unable to accurately measure the effectiveness of their Facebook and Instagram ads, they may feel compelled to shift more of their budgets to other apps and services where they can see the exact return on investment for their ads. Facebook is the number-two recipient of online ad dollars, behind Google. One particular threat is that advertisers will pour more money into Google's search ad business, which Facebook cannot duplicate, and which targets users at the time of conversion.In terms of specific businesses, the IDFA change will particularly hurt its Audience Network. The Facebook Audience Network provides advertisements in non-Facebook apps, and it uses IDFA numbers to determine the best ads to show to each user based on Facebook's data. For instance, a soft drink maker could decide to target 18-to-34-year-old gamers in the San Francisco Bay Area with a new promotion. The company could use the Facebook Audience network to have those ads placed before the right audience within mobile games; Facebook would split the ad revenue with the game makers.But if users opt out of IDFA tracking, all of that personalization Facebook has built will be rendered irrelevant outside of the company's own apps. In August, Facebook acknowledged that Apple's upcoming iOS 14 could lead to a more than 50% drop in its Audience Network advertising business.Nearly all of Facebook's revenue comes from advertising, but Facebook's Audience Network contributes only a small portion of that -- well less than 10% of the company's net revenue, a person familiar with the numbers told CNBC.Besides view-through conversions, Facebook may lose valuable data about what its iPhone-based users do on their devices when they're not in Facebook-owned apps. Already, Facebook collects a lot of data about its users from its apps, which include Facebook, Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp and others, but every additional bit of data makes its algorithms better at what they do, which includes ad targeting. Although Apple is letting users decide if they want to opt into IDFA tracking, it will still allow app-makers and advertisers to collect some data through its SKAdNetwork API without explicit user permission. But the information shared will be much less granular -- Facebook has warned in developer documents that it won't support breakdowns of activity in buckets like region, age, or gender, for instance.Why all the noise?Facebook knows that it won't be able to convince Apple to change its mind regarding IDFA, but it has pushed forward with this campaign in support of small businesses anyway. Why?Reputation repair could be one reason. Facebook's reputation has been in the gutter since the March 2018 Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which a data firm improperly accessed the data of 87 million Facebook users and used it to target ads for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election. Since then, Facebook has endured numerous scandals, it has alienated Democrats and Republicans and it has fought a never-ending battle against misinformation on its services. By taking the moral high ground and saying that it is standing up for small businesses, the IDFA debate presents an opportunity for Facebook to rebuild goodwill, even if it's with just a portion of the general public, one former Facebook employee said. In addition, IDFA tracking isn't going away -- users will simply have to choose to allow it. This means that Facebook and other app developers will have an opportunity to plead their case to every Apple user. Facebook's marketing campaign is a key part of its case. The company wants users to associate device tracking with personalized ads and with supporting small business. "Don't opt in for Facebook, do it for the coffee shop you care about," is the essence of the message. Within a small subset of its users, Facebook has begun showing prompts asking them to opt into the IDFA tracking. This is what's known as A/B testing. Among tech companies, A/B testing is a popular strategy for figuring out the most effective way to do something. In this case, Facebook can show different prompts to different users to determine which prompt will be the best at convincing the most people to opt into the IDFA tracking. Most small businesses shouldn't noticeAsked if the IDFA change will actually impact small businesses as Facebook claims it will, the former employees gave mixed answers.With less tracking data available at its disposal, Facebook and all of its clients, including small businesses, will not be able to target ads as effectively as they once did. So in that sense, yes, small businesses will be affected. However, for many small businesses, the change may not be noticeable at all. If you're a small coffee shop in Austin, Texas, for example, you may not need too much data to target your ads, said Henry Love, a former employee on Facebook's small business team. A business like that typically limits its targeting to fairly broad categories -- for instance, an age range and a distance range from a specific zip code would let them target ads to Facebook users in their proximity. That's the type of data Facebook would be able to collect from its own apps, without needing IDFA to track a user's activity elsewhere on their Apple devices. "If you talked to any restaurant owner anywhere and asked them what IDFA is, I don't think any of them would know what that is," Love said. "It's affecting Facebook at scale. Not the small business owners."Among the few "small business owners" who might feel the effects of the IDFA change are start-ups backed by venture capital money who have hired professionals with the skills to target users with sniper precision, Love said. "The only people targeting across mobile, web and Facebook Audience Network, they're not really small businesses," he said. "They're sophisticated, VC-backed startups. They're not your typical SMB."In addition, while the change isn't slated to happen until early this spring, Facebook has known about it for a long time, and has been rolling out a number of alternative solutions for businesses.Most notably, the social media company in 2020 introduced Facebook Shops and Instagram Shops. These features make it possible for brands to list their product catalogs directly on Facebook's most popular apps, and sell goods directly on Facebook and Instagram. If a sale happens within Facebook's walls, IDFA tracking won't be necessary. You may already encountered a few brands selling directly on Facebook and Instagram. Expect to see more moving forward.Megan Graham contributed to this report.VIDEO18:5818:58The big, messy business of content moderation on Facebook, Twitter, YouTubeTech

2021/03/12, In this articleAAPLCNBCApple on Friday said that it is discontinuing the original HomePod smart speaker and will instead focus on the smaller, more affordable and newer HomePod mini.The original HomePod was launched in 2018 but never quite grabbed the mass market the way competing products like the Amazon Echo or Google Home smart speakers did. While the HomePod has been lauded for its high-quality sound, it also launched at $349, which was much more expensive than the Echo or Google Home it was competing with. Apple lowered the price to $300 a year later.Apple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCThe HomePod mini launched last November and, at $99, is among the best-sounding speakers of its size. That's the model Apple says it will continue to sell."HomePod mini has been a hit since its debut last fall, offering customers amazing sound, an intelligent assistant, and smart home control all for just $99," an Apple spokesperson told CNBC on Friday. "We are focusing our efforts on HomePod mini. We are discontinuing the original HomePod, it will continue to be available while supplies last through the Apple Online Store, Apple Retail Stores, and Apple Authorized Resellers. Apple will provide HomePod customers with software updates and service and support through Apple Care."The news was first reported by TechCrunch.VIDEO0:4100:41Apple just announced its HomePod mini smart speakerThe Exchange

2021/03/04, Tim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple, speaks at the 2019 Dreamforce conference in San Francisco on November 19, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesLONDON — The U.K.'s competition regulator on Thursday launched an antitrust investigation into Apple.The Competition and Markets Authority said it would investigate Apple over complaints from software developers about the tech giant's App Store.Apple only lets developers release iPhone and iPad apps through its iOS smartphone platform. The firm has a rigorous approval process for iOS apps and has faced criticism about fees of up to 30% which it charges on in-app transactions."Millions of us use apps every day to check the weather, play a game or order a takeaway," said Andrea Coscelli, chief executive of the CMA."Complaints that Apple is using its market position to set terms which are unfair or may restrict competition and choice — potentially causing customers to lose out when buying and using apps — warrant careful scrutiny."Shares of Apple were down 0.5% in premarket trading Thursday. Tech shares were clobbered Wednesday amid concerns on Wall Street over rising U.S. bond yields.Britain's competition probe into Apple follows similar moves from the European Union. Last year, the EU Commission launched antitrust investigations into Apple's App Store rules and its Apple Pay mobile wallet. The CMA said it would continue to coordinate closely with the EU and other regulators, despite Britain having formally left the bloc last year.An Apple spokesperson said the firm would work with the CMA to address its concerns."We believe in thriving and competitive markets where any great idea can flourish," the spokesperson said."The App Store has been an engine of success for app developers, in part because of the rigorous standards we have in place — applied fairly and equally to all developers — to protect customers from malware and to prevent rampant data collection without their consent."Big Tech clampdownLarge U.S. tech companies are facing mounting antitrust scrutiny from regulators around the world. The EU is looking to clamp down on Big Tech with sweeping digital markets and services reforms. The U.K., meanwhile, has plans of its own to introduce new digital rules.Epic Games, creator of the popular video game Fortnite, has been particularly vocal in its criticism of Apple. Epic claims the iPhone maker's App Store rules are anti-competitive and has particularly taken issue with the 30% cut that Apple takes from developers for in-app purchases.Last month, Epic filed an antitrust complaint against Apple with the EU. It's filed similar lawsuits with competition regulators in the U.S., Australia and the U.K.Epic's fight with Apple began after it released an updated version of Fortnite that allowed players to bypass Apple's payment system to buy digital goods. Apple subsequently delisted the game, which was met with legal action from Epic hours later. Google was also sued by Epic after it removed the Android version of Fortnite.Spotify and Match Group have also complained about Apple's policies."The U.K. Competition and Markets Authority joins an ever-growing list of regulators to open an investigation into Apple's App Store practices," a Spotify spokesperson said."We welcome this and hope to see swift action because Apple's anticompetitive behavior is harmful to not just Spotify but to app developers and consumers everywhere around the world."

2021/03/10, In this articleAAPLiPhone 12 Mini and iPhone 12 Pro MaxTodd Haselton | CNBCApple cut orders for iPhones by 20%, according to a report from Nikkei Asia on Wednesday, due to decreased demand for its smallest iPhone 12 mini model.Apple's new iPhones are still in high demand. The company plans to build 230 million iPhones in 2021, up 11.6% from 2020, according to Nikkei Asia. But, the iPhone 12 mini isn't selling as well as expected as consumers gravitate to either the older iPhone 11, which has a bigger screen, the larger iPhone 12 or the more premium iPhone 12 Pro models.Apple shares closed down 0.91% on Wednesday.The consumer sentiment seems to reflect reviews of the phones when they first launched in November. CNBC, for example, said the iPhone 12 mini is basically just a smaller version of the iPhone 12 with worse battery life. And while it's compelling for people with smaller hands, most consumers should just spend the extra $100 for the iPhone 12, which has better battery life and a larger screen.The iPhone 12 models have largely been successful for Apple, however. Apple no longer discloses how many iPhones it sells each quarter but, in January, research firm IDC said the company shipped 90.1 million devices during the fourth quarter of 2020, the "highest shipment volume from a vendor in a single quarter," and helped lead Apple to the top phone seller in the world, ahead of Samsung for the quarter. Apple iPhone revenue for the quarter was up 17% year over year, too.That momentum behind the iPhone 12 helped Apple book a record holiday quarter in 2020, bringing in more than $100 billion in a quarter for the first time in the company's history.Apple was not immediately available to comment.VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the StreetSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/03/03, Tim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., speaks during the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in San Jose, California, U.S., on Monday, June 4, 2018. David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe Arizona House of Representatives voted 31-29 on Wednesday to pass a bill that will require app stores to allow app makers to use their own payment processing software, avoiding fees charged by Apple and Google.The vote is a setback for Apple, which opposed it, and a victory for the Coalition for App Fairness, a group representing app makers upset with the app stores, which backed the bill.The legislation still has a lot of challenges to overcome before it becomes state law. First, the Arizona Senate has to discuss and pass the legislation. Then, Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey would have a choice to veto the bill. If it becomes law, Arizona will have to grapple with questions including how Apple or Google will comply, or if it would be challenged in court.The vote comes weeks after the North Dakota state senate voted against passing a similar bill.The Arizona bill, HB 2005, targeted Apple's fees by requiring companies that run app stores with over a million downloads per year to allow apps to offer alternative payment processors, enabling developers to avoid fees ranging from 15% to 30%. The bill would apply to companies and users in Arizona.While the bill didn't specify any companies, it was clearly targeted at Apple's App Store, which approves any app that runs on iPhones, and the Google Play app store for Android phones, which takes 30% of sales of digital goods from Android apps. Discussion of the bill in the Arizona House focused mostly on Apple, with some discussion of Google. The bill exempted digital software stores for game consoles or music players."I think they have a monopoly on the market right now," Republican Arizona State Rep. Regina Cobb, who sponsored the bill, said. "There isn't anybody in here that doesn't have a Google Android or Apple phone, I guarantee it."Other legislators opposed the bill on other grounds, including a rushed process, questions over whether it's a federal issue, and a concern that the legislation would be challenged in federal court because it could conflict with the U.S. constitution."Arizona does not have an interest in this fight," Democratic Arizona State Rep. Diego Rodriguez said. "We don't have a dog in this fight, what we need to do is be focused on policies that are protecting consumers. This bill does not protect consumers, it protects a $1 billion company from another billion-dollar company."Apple opposed the Arizona bill, and Kyle Andeer, Apple's Chief Compliance Officer, said at a hearing last week that it amounts to a "government mandate that Apple give away the App Store.""This would allow billion-dollar developers to take all of the App Store's value for free—even if they're selling digital goods, even if they're making millions or even billions of dollars doing it," Andeer said.Apple and Google representatives declined to comment.Arizona's bill is the latest effort to regulate Apple's App Store, which has come under fire for its strict rules and fees for digital purchases, which some software makers say is unfair and anticompetitive.State legislatures have become a battleground and similar legislation is being considered in states including Georgia and Minnesota.Arizona's bill was backed by the Coalition for App Fairness, which includes software companies like Spotify, Match Group, and Epic Games, which have chafed under Apple's control of its App Store and want Apple to reduce its fees, open up iPhones for alternative app stores, and permit alternative payment processes."The Coalition for App Fairness is pleased to see the House passage of HB 2005, which will encourage business innovation in Arizona and protect consumer choice. While this is cause for celebration, it is only a first step toward achieving a truly level playing field for all," said Meghan DiMuzio, executive director for the Coalition for App Fairness.Last year, Epic Games filed antitrust lawsuits against Apple and Google that are currently working through the courts, focusing on many of the same issues, such as giving software makers the option to use their own payment processor.In October, the House Judiciary Subcommittee released a report that said that Apple has "monopoly power" over iPhone apps, which it uses to generate outsized profits.In 2019, the Supreme Court ruled 5-4 against Apple in a case that opened up the possibility of consumer lawsuits against Apple's app store for allegedly inflating app prices.The scrutiny appears to be having an effect on Apple's App Store policies. Late last year, Apple introduced a new program that reduced its fee from App Store sales from 30% to 15% for companies that make less than $1 million per year on the App Store, addressing some complaints.

2021/03/03, In this articleGOOGLAAPLTodd Haselton | CNBCApple quietly rolled out a tool that lets you copy all of the pictures you have stored in Apple Photos over to Google Photos.You might find it helpful for a couple of reasons. It's an easy way to move everything over if you're switching to an Android phone, since you can't upload to Apple Photos from an Android phone. Like Apple Photos, Google Photos will create automatic highlight video clips set to music, but it will also automatically create collages, animations, add filters (that often look really good) and more. Both services have their strengths, and I use both as a way to create a backup of the other.It's also useful if you want to switch from iCloud Storage to Google One storage. Apple charges $0.99/month for 50GB, $2.99/month for 200GB or $9.99/month for 2TB of storage. Google's plans are similarly priced, but let you share 100GB with your family for $1.99 a month while Apple only offers family sharing on its 200GB and 2TB plans. Also, Google has a $49.99/month 10TB plan in case you have a lot of data and just want to keep everything there.A word of warning: The transfer isn't immediate. It said my 117GB library of over 20,000 photos and more than 800 videos will take between three and seven days to move. I'll show you how to copy them over now.How to copy your photos from Apple Photos to Google PhotosZoom In IconArrows pointing outwards Transfer from Apple Photos to Google PhotosFirst head to Apple's privacy website (privacy.apple.com/account) on your computer.Log in with your Apple account.Choose "Request to transfer a copy of your data."You'll see a summary of the number of photos and videos stored in iCloud Photos and how much storage they currently use.Under "Choose where you'd like to transfer your photos" select "Google Photos." It's the only option right now.Check the boxes to transfer videos and photos.Tap Continue.Confirm you're aware that your photos and videos won't fully transfer if your Google One drive runs out of space by tapping "Continue" again.Log in with your Google Account and grant Apple access to your Google Photos library.Choose "Confirm Transfers."That's it. You should see the pictures appear in your Google account when the transfer is complete, after which you'll also receive an email confirmation. Just be patient: It may take several days depending on how big your library is.VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the StreetSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/03/18, CNBC.com's MacKenzie Sigalos brings you the day's top business news headlines. On today's show, CNBC's Julia Boorstin delves deep into the privacy fight between Apple and Facebook, and how consumers feel about the two different approaches to personal data. Plus, CNBC's digital video team takes a look at the future of the F-35 — the cutting-edge stealth fighter from Lockheed Martin.Here's what else we're watching: Goldman's junior bankers complain of crushing workload amid SPAC-fueled boom in Wall Street dealsJunior investment bankers at Goldman Sachs are suffering burnout from 100-hour work weeks and demanding bosses during a SPAC-fueled boom in deals, according to an internal survey done by a group of first-year analysts.The surge in activity has taken a serious toll on analysts' mental and physical health since at least the start of the year, according to slides released to social media and authenticated by people with knowledge of the matter."The sleep deprivation, the treatment by senior bankers, the mental and physical stress ... I've been through foster care and this is arguably worse," one Goldman analyst said, according to the February survey of 13 employees.NFL finalizes new 11-year media rights deal, Amazon gets exclusive Thursday Night rightsThe National Football League has finalized its new 11-year media rights agreement with a pact that will run through 2033 and could be worth over $100 billion.The league announced Thursday it's renewing TV rights with all of its existing broadcast partners and adding Amazon Prime Video as an exclusive partner for its Thursday Night Football package. It's the first time a streaming service will carry a full package of games exclusively. Amazon is paying about $1 billion per year, according to people familiar with the matter. All the packages are for 11 years, the league said.ViacomCBS, Fox and Comcast (which owns NBCUniversal) are all paying more than $2 billion per year for their packages, while Disney (which owns ESPN and ABC) will pay around $2.7 billion annually, according to people familiar with the matter. Using these numbers, the NFL's new agreement projects to be more than $100 billion -- the richest U.S. sports league media deal.Nasdaq tumbles 3% as soaring yields hit tech shares, S&P 500 closes 1.5% lowerTechnology shares led the U.S. stock market lower on Thursday as a spike in bond yields fueled concern about equity valuations and prompted investors to sell growth-focused high flyers.The Nasdaq Composite dropped 3% to 13,116.17 for its worst day since Feb. 25 as Apple, Amazon and Netflix all fell more than 3%. Tesla slipped nearly 7%. The S&P 500 slid 1.5% to 3,915.46, falling from a record closing high reached in the previous session. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 153.07 points, or 0.5%, to 32,862.30 after hitting a new intraday record earlier in the day amid a rally in bank stocks.

2021/03/07, In this articleAAPLTSLAVIDEO5:2705:27What Buffett and Baron's sell-off of Apple and Tesla means for investorsExecutive EdgeIf a stock pundit had said at the beginning of 2021 it was time to get out of Tesla and into Exxon Mobil, many investors might have sought another source of market advice. But to an unemotional stock trader, that may have seemed like the right move after growth stocks' massive run into the new year, and a stock market rotation out of large-cap growth that had already gained steam in the fourth quarter of 2020.Tesla shares have been crushed this year, while traditional fossil fuel companies like Exxon Mobil continue to soar off lows hit during the worst of the pandemic, and as oil rebounds on greater economic confidence. The gap between energy stocks and tech stocks is the widest it has been since 2002, while the Nasdaq selling last week, even with Friday's big rebound, basically erased the tech-heavy index's gains for the year. The Nasdaq 100 is now down 1.7% on the year.Warren Buffett loves Apple but trimmed his stake in the fourth quarter. Ron Baron thinks Tesla is headed to $2,000, but sold 1.8 million shares. While it would be a mistake for most individual investors to think their portfolio planning resembles the decision-making of billionaires, or that these billionaires are not in these particular names for the long run — they are — at a time of violent stock selling and market volatility, it's worthwhile to consider how these investors think about their biggest winners.Bubbles vs. violent stock sellingYou don't need to believe a massive bubble is here to worry that the market is not finished with some more violent "digestion" of winners.Nick Colas, co-founder of DataTrek Research, recently surveyed several hundred investors including institutions, registered investments advisors and high-net-worth individuals, and found no concern about a systemic risk to the market, but one-third of investors do believe U.S. large-cap stocks may see more pressure based on asset values.This is not another tech bubble, in his view, but there has been such an elevated amount of capital into technology stocks that there is reason to worry more money will "rotate out violently, and quickly."He looks at some of the cyclical plays, some already back above pre-pandemic levels and five-year levels, financials as an example. "I think we see lots more rotation. You can't just be in Tesla anymore. You can't be in speculative tech names anymore. That money is leaving and looking for more real world leverage," as the Covid reopening accelerates, he says.Apple and big tech has also seen pressure this year and that may continue."Those trillion-dollar stocks were huge parking lots for capital last year, all investors from retail to institutional understood the business models and for that brief shining moment they were right place to be," Colas said. "These rotations, when they happen, they are not necessarily sensible. Tesla will still do fine, but people are saying they have to be somewhere else. ... Apple is a great company with great management, and maybe you make 10% on Apple in the next year, but how about 30% in energy?"The Fed, inflation and market rotationsThe selling of the market's biggest winners is an indirect effect of confidence in the economic recovery, and what kinds of companies will show the best upside earnings surprises in the next 12 months. That supports financials — the Financial Select Sector SPDR ETF is now through its five-year high — and the stimulus package passed by the Senate over the weekend and expected to be signed by President Biden, will be large and help consumers and hit in the spring as more businesses are reopening.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsWhile he thinks small-caps as a whole, represented by the Russell 2000, have run too far too fast since Q4 2020 to see great short-term value in a broad index bet, Colas does think some small-cap sector-specific plays continue to have the market rotation momentum."When we see 'XYZ company' beat estimates by 50% it won't be Tesla or Apple. ... The surprise will be small-cap energy or banks, small banks, even small industrials. We will see it in airlines, and maybe hotels, though not right away," Colas says. Much of the recent volatility in the market has been triggered by concerns the Federal Reserve is losing control of the bond market and will need to raise rates sooner than it has telegraphed, and how that makes some stocks less attractive as bond yields rise, while inflation also makes investors reassess the future value of their holdings.But Colas says for stock investors focused on this year who want to maintain exposure to the market, it can be pointless to fight the Fed. He recalled a comment hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman once gave to a group of young Wall Streeters he was among decades ago: "You don't want to live in a world where the Fed can't control the markets, and good night if you believe that."If you do believe that, "you can't be in risk assets at all," Colas says.Inflation, meanwhile, at least in the near-term, means pricing power for many companies that have not experienced that dynamic in a long time. "Inflation in the short and medium term is good thing for stocks," he said. That is distinct from the inflationary pressures that can lead investors to doubt the longer-term value of the stocks they are holding and which Buffett himself, who lived through the market-crushing inflation of the 1970s, has called the "misery index for investors."But Colas also cautions that investors should not assume there won't be more selling ahead."If anyone remembers what happened in 2000, the selloff wasn't super-violent and people defended their positions and buy recommendations for months and months and months."This is not the dotcom bubble, and the technology sector is much more developed."We barely had internet and had no smartphones."But investors who want to be tactical rather than set their portfolio on autopilot for the long-term may hang with certain stocks for too long.The psychology of billionaire investorsHis advice: "Let the market prove to you the selloff is over."With Tesla below $600 last week, don't assume there is an immediate buy on the dip. "You want to see Tesla stabilize. These selloffs dont V bottom. ... Just be aware you're still buying a very highly valued company and Tesla won't magically reverse back to 800."He says back in the years when he worked at Steve Cohen's SAC Capital, there was a saying: "Don't short a new high or buy a new low. You wait." While it's a mistake for the average investor to obsess over the moves made by the market's biggest players — billionaires like Steve Cohen, Warren Buffett and Ron Baron — they do offer a few straightforward lessons for volatile markets.No. 1: They make unemotional decisions and they are always looking ahead rather than back."They spend zero seconds saying, 'I have a huge gain and will stick with it," Colas said. "SAC had an in-house shrink to break people of the psychology of taking losses or holding gains, to never let it cloud the decision-making process."One of the most difficult lessons for investors to learn is that the market does not care about the price at which you bought, and the price is reset everyday in spite of how you may think about it. "That is a hard thing for people to learn," Colas said.The trades that got an investor through 2020 are not necessarily the winning trades now."There's a new game and the cycle is turning." Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsRon Baron is among the Tesla shareholders who has seen huge value generated by Elon Musk, but he is process-driven. Baron is always thinking about secular shifts in industries and he believes in the shift taking place in transportation — and has invested in more than just Tesla (e.g. GM Cruise) — but as an investor he also has to manage position size. "He can't go to a client and say 30% of your net worth is now Tesla. That's not good money management. And every investor should take that to heart," Colas said.Buffett has always been good at investing based on the premise that there is a finite amount of capital and, "It has to go to the best use always," Colas says. If he is trimming Apple — even as he sings its praises, and even though its valuation had not been in the same neighborhood as Tesla's and it has shown earnings leverage through the pandemic — there may be better opportunity for those dollars now and over the next 12 months elsewhere."If want to take lessons away from the billionaires, just try to think like they do about position size and diversification and best use of capital," Colas says. "These are omnibus lessons."And remember that if money continues to rotate out of large-cap growth and tech, at some point the investor who is always looking ahead will remember that the next big rotation could be out of cylicals. "That's the way rotations work," he says.There's a good case to be made there is more room to run in traditional energy right now than in EVs, but there will be a day in the future when the trade may be back out of Exxon Mobil and into Tesla.  

2021/03/17, Samsung's new Galaxy A52, A52 5G and A72 smartphones.SamsungLONDON — Samsung debuted three mid-range smartphones on Wednesday, including one with 5G support, hoping to lure in people with less cash to spare as competition in the mobile industry intensifies.The new phones are part of Samsung's budget Galaxy A range, which has become a popular brand with Samsung customers put off by high prices in the firm's flagship Galaxy S lineup.Samsung is aiming to reclaim its position as the world's top smartphone manufacturer after Apple took that title in the fourth quarter of 2020. Apple's new iPhone 12 is the company's first model to come with 5G capability.Samsung is launching three new models: the Galaxy A52, Galaxy A52 5G and Galaxy A72. The new lineup is an upgrade from last year's Galaxy A51 and A71 handsets. The A52 5G is the only device out of the three to support superfast 5G internet. It'll retail at 429 euros ($510), making it a more affordable alternative to Apple's iPhone 12 Mini.Specs and featuresThe South Korean electronics giant says its new phones come with a number of improvements on their predecessors, including a better screen, camera and battery life.The Galaxy A52 features a bright 6.5-inch display while the Galaxy A72 has a 6.7-inch panel. The Galaxy A52 5G includes a 120Hz refresh rate, which basically means you'll be able to scroll more smoothly. The entry Galaxy A52 and more expensive A72 models feature a 90Hz refresh rate.Samsung says it's taken eye strain into account, including a feature that automatically adjusts the display color temperature depending on the way a person uses their phone. There's also a music-sharing setting that lets users sync their phone to a friend's device to connect to a Bluetooth speaker without having to link directly with the speaker.All three phones contain a quad camera with a 64-megapixel main lens. The Galaxy A72 features 3x optical zoom, which Samsung says will let users take a photo from a 10-meter distance that looks like it's been taken just three meters away.Another key camera feature on the new Galaxy A lineup is Fun Mode, which was developed in partnership with Snap. It's a tool in Samsung's native camera app that lets you add Snapchat filters to your pictures and videos.Samsung also touted better battery life with its new handsets, promising two days of usage without having to worry about charging the phones. The A52 and A52 5G come with a 4,500mAH battery while the A72 has a larger 5,000mAH battery.Price and release dateSamsung's Galaxy A52 will retail at 349 euros ($415), while the A52 5G and A72 will set you back 429 euros and 449 euros, respectively.Samsung hasn't yet given an international release date for the new phones but said they'll launch in the U.S. sometime in April."This new line-up represents a significant step in performance and features," Paolo Pescatore, tech, media and telco analyst at PP Foresight, told CNBC."The most notable standout features are the impressive screen including the high refresh rate and far longer battery life."Samsung's new budget phones could tempt people who aren't prepared to pay $1,000 or more for a premium Android or iPhone model."The launch is timely and comes at an interesting time given the slew of new smartphone launches," said Pescatore."While there is huge excitement with the arrival of new smartphones, competition in the mid-tier is intense. Samsung has done a good job of packing in, premium sought after features (some from its flagship S21 device) at punchy prices."

2021/03/01, NEW YORK, NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 20: Apple CEO Tim Cook greets customers at the grand reopening of Apple's flagship Apple Fifth Avenue retail store on September 20, 2019 in New York City.Taylor Hill | WireImage | Getty ImagesShares of Apple closed up 5.39% on Monday to a price of $127.79, outpacing the NASDAQ, which was only up 3.01% percent. It was Apple's biggest day since Oct. 12, when shares rose 6.35%.The bump came after Berkshire Hathaway chairman and CEO Warren Buffett said in his annual letter to investors published this weekend that his investment firm owns 5.4% of Apple's stock, making it Berkshire's third-most valuable asset. The letter praised Apple's approach to dividends and share buybacks."Berkshire's investment in Apple vividly illustrates the power of repurchases," Buffett wrote.Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway started buying Apple in 2016 after years of avoiding tech stocks. Apple's success last year largely offset damage from the pandemic to the investor's railroad and insurance businesses.Buffett said Berkshire Hathaway, like Apple, plans to repurchase its shares.Apple's rise also comes after the company confirmed on Monday that all 270 of its U.S. retail stores are open for business, although some remain appointment-only.Monday marked the first time that all U.S. stores are open since Apple started closing them in response to the Covid-19 pandemic last spring.Apple reopened and reclosed its stores several times during the past year in response to local Covid-19 conditions, and Monday's milestone suggests Apple's retail business is starting to return to normal.VIDEO2:3202:32Recode co-founder Walt Mossberg on Epic Games' lawsuit over Apple App StoreSquawk Alley

2021/02/23, In this articleAAPLApple CEO, Tim Cook waves as he opens the door of the newly renovated Apple Store at Fifth Avenue on September 20, 2019 in New York City. (Photo by Kena Betancur / AFP) (Photo credit should read KENA BETANCUR/AFP via Getty Images)KENA BETANCUR | AFP | Getty ImagesApple shareholders on Tuesday voted to re-elect the company's board of directors and approve 2020 pay for executives, including CEO Tim Cook.The vote was nonbinding and advisory. Apple shareholders also voted down a shareholder proposal opposed by Apple that would compel the company to reduce executive pay compared with median Apple employee pay.The votes, which were expected, are another sign that Apple's shareholders are satisfied with the company's management and CEO. Apple, valued at more than $2.1 trillion, recently reported a quarter with $111.4 billion in revenue and sales growth in every product category, even during a pandemic year.Apple's board strongly supported Cook's pay package in a filing, citing a 867% return to shareholders, including dividends, from when he took over as Apple CEO in 2011 through September 2020.Apple's proxy also included information about an equity package announced last year that could net CEO Tim Cook 1 million new shares if the company hits certain goals. However, that equity package was not granted until Sept. 27, 2020, which was the first day of Apple's 2021 fiscal year. So this year's shareholder vote on executive compensation did not actually cover that grant.VIDEO3:0703:07Joanna Stern: Apple taking wait-and-see approach to foldable phonesPower LunchCook also said that Apple planned to increase the company's dividend. Dividends totaled over $14 billion in the last four quarters, he said. The company paid a dividend of 20.5 cents per share in the last two quarters.Covid-19 and Apple's success as a business during a pandemic year was major theme of Cook's remarks to shareholders. Last year, Cook said the pandemic was the most challenging environment Apple's ever faced."A year later, you have to pause, and say wow," he said.Cook said in a question-and-answer session that while Apple had adapted well to remote work — Apple employees have been working from home since March — the company still "can't wait until we can gather together in the office again," suggesting that Apple will still be office focused after the pandemic, in comparison to rival tech companies that have announced plans to shift to a remote work model.He said that one advantage of working from an office was serendipitous interactions between employees.Cook also talked about Apple's acquisitions strategy. He said that Apple has acquired 100 companies over the last six years. Ultimately, Apple acquires a company every three to four weeks, Cook said, mostly aimed at acquiring technology and talent.In response to a shareholder question about whether Apple faces regulatory challenges around its control of the iPhone App Store, Cook said that Apple doesn't have a monopoly. "While scrutiny is always fair, accusations like these fall apart on a reasonable examination of the facts," he said.Correction: This year's shareholder vote on executive compensation did not encompass the new restricted stock unit (RSU) award granted to Tim Cook on the first day of Apple's 2021 fiscal year. An earlier version of this story also misstated Apple's revenue for the last quarter, which was $111.4 billion.

2021/03/01, A customer exits after picking up Apple's new 5G iPhone 12 that went on sale, as the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak continues, at an Apple Store in Brooklyn, New York, October 23, 2020.Brendan McDermid | ReutersAll 270 Apple stores in the United States are open for business on Monday, a company spokesperson confirmed.It's the first time that all U.S. stores are open since Apple started closing stores in response to the Covid-19 pandemic last spring. Apple reopened its last closed U.S. locations in Texas on Monday. The United States is beginning to emerge from lockdowns as the number of new cases falls and vaccines are distributed.Not all Apple stores in the U.S. are fully open for walk-in customers to go inside and browse, however. Customers should check Apple's website before heading to their store in case it is appointment-only or service is limited in other ways.Last year, on March 13, Apple announced it was closing all its stores outside China as the coronavirus pandemic started to pick up around the world. At the time, the closings were only scheduled through March 27, although it soon became clear that the lockdowns would stretch for months.Since that first announcement, Apple has reopened and reclosed locations around the world in response to Covid-19 conditions, often deciding to temporarily close a store ahead of official government restrictions.In response to the pandemic, Apple experimented with new store services, including appointment-only service or shopping, and an "express pickup" option that gets customers in and out quickly. Apple also started to require masks in stores and implemented health and safety guidelines that included reduced occupancy.Around the world, 12 Apple stores in France and two stores in Brazil are still closed. Two stores in Mexico reopen on Tuesday.9to5Mac first reported that all U.S. Apple stores were open.Apple has not had problems selling its products while its stores have been closed, especially through its online store, which has been open. However, Apple CEO Tim Cook said recently that its holiday quarter could have been even bigger if its physical stores had been open.Although the pandemic appears to be slowing down in the U.S. and businesses are reopening, the country is still recording at least 67,300 new cases of Covid-19 and at least 2,010 deaths each day, according to a seven-day average calculated by CNBC using Johns Hopkins University data.However, the pace of vaccines being administered throughout the country continues to increase, raising hope that business could return to normal later this year. According to the CDC, 49.8 million people have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine.VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the Street

2021/02/20, In this articleAAPLTim Cook (left) and Steve Jobs in 2010.Kimberly White | Getty ImagesIn 2007, Apple unveiled the iPhone.Apple didn't invent the smartphone — companies like Palm and Blackberry had been selling them for years. But the iPhone introduced a totally new way to interact with computers. The always-on internet connectivity, finger-friendly touch screen, and interface based around clickable app icons all seem commonplace now. But at the time, the whole package felt revolutionary.The smartphone was a seismic shift for the technology industry, creating entirely new business models — apps became $100 billion companies -- while replacing everything from digital cameras to in-car GPS systems.But smartphone sales have dropped two calendar years straight for the first time, according to Gartner. Smartphones are old news.The tech industry's next bet is a series of technologies usually called augmented reality (AR) or mixed reality. The vision usually involves some kind of computer worn in front of the user's eyes.VIDEO14:4514:45Why cellphone bills cost so much in the U.S.TechUsers will still be able to see most of the real world in front of them — unlike virtual reality, which completely immerses the user in a computer-generated fantasyland, augmented reality layers computer-generated text and images on top of reality.Industry watchers and participants think that Apple has a good chance to validate and revolutionize AR like it did with smartphones. Apple has been prototyping headsets for years, and recent reports from The Information and Bloomberg suggest that Apple could release a headset as early as 2022 that could cost as much as $3,000.But Apple's not the only company working on these products. All the big tech players — Microsoft, Google, Facebook, and Amazon — are in the game as well.Futurists and screenwriters have conjured blue-sky visions of what could happen with advanced computer glasses — one episode of the dystopian anthology "Black Mirror" explored a world where people could "block" certain people out of their view. More positive visions imagine having important information coming directly into your view, exactly when you want it.Today, the most common use cases are much more mundane, including smartphone-based games and apps like Pokemon Go or Apple's Ruler app, which use the phone's screen and camera rather than relying on glasses or another set of screens sitting on your face. The few companies who are actively producing AR glasses are mostly focused on work scenarios, like manufacturing and medicine."That's where we now sit in spatial computing's lifecycle. It's not the revolutionary platform shift touted circa-2016," said Mike Boland, technology analyst and founder of ARtillery Intelligence, in a recent report. "It's not a silver bullet for everything we do in life and work as once hyped. But it will be transformative in narrower ways, and within a targeted set of use cases and verticals."Here's what the biggest companies in tech are doing to try and make augmented reality the next big thing:AppleAn attendee demonstrates the ARKit, augmented reality tool, on an Apple Inc. iPad Pro during the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in San Jose, California, U.S., on Monday, June 5, 2017.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple's generation-defining success with the iPhone has made it the company to watch in augmented reality -- even though the company has never confirmed it is working on a headset, glasses or any other kind of head-worn computer.Boland says that if Apple were to release a pair of AR glasses, it could "determine the fate of the AR industry," given the company's track record of popularizing new technologies.A report from Bloomberg last month suggested Apple's first AR product could be out as early as next year. Its first shot will reportedly a battery-powered headset that's primarily designed for virtual reality, but with on-board cameras to enable augmented reality as well. The report says this device could cost thousands of dollars and be available only in low volumes -- more typical of a test platform for software developers than the mass-market products Apple usually releases.Eventually Apple could take lessons it learns from the virtual reality headset and apply it to a pair of lightweight AR glasses with transparent displays. But according to Bloomberg, that project still faces additional work on technical issues such as miniaturization and lens technology.Display technology is another limiting factors for augmented reality. The transparent displays currently on the market have a limited field of view in which they can display graphics, are often not bright enough for daylight use, and generally could be better suited for all-day wear.Apple's working on solving this problem, too, according to a report in Nikkei Asia. The newspaper says that Apple is working with TSMC, its primary processor manufacturer, to develop a new kind of augmented reality display that's printed directly on wafers, or the base layer for chips.If Apple does eventually reveal a big leap forward in AR display technology -- especially if the technology is developed and owned by Apple instead of a supplier -- Apple could find itself with multi-year head-start in augmented reality as it did when the iPhone vaulted it to the head of the smartphone industry.Of course, that's assuming that there's software worth using when the headset comes out. But Apple has already laid the groundwork for a rich software library.In 2017, Apple released software called ARKit, which includes tools for software makers to determine how far away an object or wall is, if the phone is moving, or identify limbs in a human body, among other functions.Companies like Ikea, Target, and Amazon have already used ARKit, mostly for placing virtual furniture in a room to see if it fits. Warby Parker uses it to enable virtual glasses try-ons through its app. Snap uses new iPhone 3D sensors to improve its face-shifting lenses, which advertisers can purchase. But so far, few ARKit apps have found a wider audience.Apple is also adding hardware to its iPhones that hint at a headset-based future. High-end iPhones released in 2020 include advanced Lidar sensors embedded in their camera. These sensors can measure how far away objects are, and are currently used to execute fun filters and photo effects. But when paired with an advanced headset, their use could be more profound. Apple is considering using lidar sensors on its headset, according to The Information.One way to look at Apple's investment in the technology is to look at the companies it's bought in the field. It's bought a company that builds transparent optics, a headset maker, and companies that make software and content for augmented and virtual reality, including Akonia Holographics, Vrvana, Metaio, Emotient, Flyby Media, Spaces, and NextVR.GoogleGoogle partners with Diane Von Furstenberg to offer fashionable DVF Google Glass.Source: GoogleGoogle was the first major technology company to release a head-worn computer when it introduced Google Glass in 2013. It cost $1,500 at the time, and was explicitly targeted at people in the computer industry and early adopters, which Google called "explorers."Google's approach was significantly lighter and simpler than what's come since. Google Glass did not attempt to use advanced processing to integrate computer graphics into the real world. Instead, it was equipped with a camera, and had a little transparent display with relatively low resolution on the right temple. That display was used to project small bits of information into the user's field of vision -- sort of like an Apple Watch or smartwatch on the user's face.But Google Glass was also a lightning rod for criticism -- it had a built-in video camera, and people who weren't wearing it felt like they were being watched. One wearer said she was assaulted outside a San Francisco bar in 2014 for wearing the glasses.Google paused Glass in 2015 and rejiggered it for business users. Last year, it started selling Google Glass for $999 per unit through some of its hardware resellers.One key application for Glass is Augmedix, which uses the headset's camera to cut down on the time doctors spend on busywork. The Glass camera streams an interaction with patients to "scribes" hired by the company who write down the important details and enter them into the patient record.Last year, Google acquired North, a Canadian company making a pair of lightweight $1,000 smartglasses.MicrosoftMicrosoft HoloLens 2MicrosoftMicrosoft announced its augmented reality headset, Hololens, in 2015, and released the first version in 2016. It's now on its second version, which costs $3,500. It's a niche device targeted for business sales. (Microsoft's tagline: "Work smarter with mixed reality.")On its website, Microsoft touts manufacturing, retail, and healthcare as primary use cases. In factories, the headset can inform workers about how to fix or operate a complicated machine. Retailers, instead of having costly display items or large amounts of inventory, can virtually display their goods to customers, Microsoft suggests.Microsoft's store currently has 343 HoloLens apps. None are household names, and many are simple demos that display graphics like a birthday cake or fireworks.Microsoft has invested heavily in these kind of technologies, purchasing AltspaceVR, a social network for virtual reality, in 2018. Before it launched Hololens, it paid $150 million for intellectual property from a smartglasses pioneer. It doesn't break out Hololens sales or revenue.FacebookFacebook announced it will begin using Project Aria research glasses to collect video, audio, eye-tracking and location data from public spaces to inform its development of smart glasses.FacebookFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks the most in public about his hopes for augmented reality. Last year, he said, "While I expect phones to still be our primary devices through most of this decade, at some point in the 2020s, we will get breakthrough augmented reality glasses that will redefine our relationship with technology."Facebook's enthusiasm for augmented reality is driven in part by its dependence on smartphone platforms from other vendors today. In particular, Facebook has been balking at Apple's control over the iPhone for years, and the fight has escalated recently as Apple is planning technical changes to the iPhone software that will hurt Facebook's main moneymaker, mobile advertising.If Facebook creates the next big platform, then it will set the rules.Zuckerberg is also predicting massive societal change stemming from augmented reality: "Imagine if you could live anywhere you chose and access any job anywhere else."Facebook is already a leader in virtual reality, augmented reality's cousin. It bought Oculus for $2 billion in 2014, a move that signaled the start of massive investment in these technologies. The latest Oculus headset includes cameras, costs $300, and sold 1 million units in December, according to an estimate from SuperData.With cameras mounted on the front and powerful processing, virtual reality headsets can approximate augmented reality by displaying a real-time feed of the outside world. This feature is called "passthrough" on recent Oculus headsets, and it could be Apple's initial approach as well.The company is also working on lightweight AR glasses and hopes to launch a product this year in partnership with Luxottica, the sunglasses giant, CNBC previously reported.Facebook is also working on "Project Aria," which is a research-oriented pair of computer glasses that don't have advanced AR displays, but can record video, audio, track the user's eyes, and access location data.AmazonAmazon Echo FramesTodd Haselton | CNBCAmazon is the tech giant with the least public enthusiasm about augmented reality technology, but it does sell a pair of smart glasses called Echo Frames. These don't even have a display. Instead, the user interacts entirely through Alexa, Amazon's voice assistant.Amazon is also attacking augmented reality different angles. Last fall it released an "Amazon Augmented Reality" app, but it's not a serious piece of software. Instead, it uses QR codes on Amazon shipping boxes to activate fun mini-games, like turning an Amazon box into a race car, or putting fun sunglasses on a dog."Augmented reality is a fun way to reuse your Amazon boxes until you're ready to drop them in the recycling bin," according to the app's description.Other Amazon applications use augmented reality to place virtual furniture inside the user's home to make sure it fits before making an online purchase.But Amazon has many of the pieces to take augmented reality more seriously. It has expertise in computer vision, or the software that can identify what objects in a photo or video are. It has an industry-leading voice assistant that could be deeply integrated with the headset.Amazon also has hundreds of thousands of warehouse workers that could be early adopters of AR glasses — one commonly pitched use case is to help "pickers" find items in a large warehouse more easily by highlighting them with computer graphics.

2021/03/29, VIDEO0:5100:51Stock futures point to mixed open after Dow's record closeMorning ReportU.S. stocks fell Tuesday as major technology shares came under pressure again after the 10-year Treasury yield touched its highest level since January 2020.The Dow Jones Industrial Average dipped 104.41 points, or 0.3%, to 33,066.96, slipping from a record closing high. Apple and Microsoft were among the biggest losers in the 30-stock Dow, falling more than 1% each. The S&P 500 slid 0.3% to 3,958.55, led by losses in consumer staples and technology. The Nasdaq Composite ended the session 0.1% lower at 13,045.39. The tech-heavy benchmark was down more than 1% at one point.The 10-year Treasury yield climbed 6 basis points to top 1.77% earlier Tuesday, hitting its highest level in 14 months as vaccine rollouts and expected infrastructure spending boosted the outlook for a broad economic recovery and rising inflation. The benchmark rate later turned flat at 1.72%."There's two different sides to rising rates — is it being driven by fears of inflation or by optimism about the economy? And lately it's been driven more by optimism about the economy," said Tom Hainlin, global investment strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management.Investors digested a reading on consumer confidence that far exceeded expectations. The Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index surged in March to 109.7, its highest reading in a year. Economists polled by Dow Jones expected the index to rise to 96.8 from 90.4 in February.Classic reopening plays rallied after the data release. American Airlines jumped more than 5%, while United Airlines popped more than 3%. Carnival and Norwegian Cruise Line both climbed at least 3%.The market experienced heightened volatility this week amid the continued fallout after a hedge fund was forced to liquidate its position in several media stocks.ViacomCBS and Discovery both rebounded after registering heavy losses last week prompted by Archegos Capital Management selling large blocks of stocks late last week. Discovery jumped more than 5%, while ViacomCBS rose 3.6%.Wells Fargo advanced more than 2% after the bank said it didn't experience losses related to closing out its exposure to Archegos.Other bank stocks also staged a comeback. Goldman Sachs climbed 1.9%. JPMorgan and Bank of America also rose more than 1% each.Credit Suisse and Nomura posted heavy losses this week after warning of "significant" hits to first-quarter results following the hedge fund's selling.Despite the recent volatility, the Dow and S&P 500 are firmly higher for the month, gaining 6.9% and 3.9%, respectively.President Joe Biden is expected to provide details about his infrastructure plan when he travels to Pittsburgh on Wednesday. The spending package could cost north of $3 trillion."The significant tailwinds propelling equities higher and the forces that have driven equities into, during, and now out of the pandemic remain," analysts at Evercore ISI wrote in a note to clients."Investors seem to understand that faster growth, rising earnings growth expectations, still historically low corporate borrowing costs, and pent up consumer demand will fuel further market gains," the firm added.Evercore envisions the pace of gains slowing, however, with equities already pricing in a reacceleration of growth.Wild swings could hit the market later this week when pension funds and other big investors conduct their quarter-end rebalancing. The recent jump in bond yields could set up money managers for big moves in their portfolios.

2021/02/25, In this articleTGTAAPLTarget will open 17 mini Apple shops inside of its stores this month, with plans to expand them to other locations.TargetTarget wants to give shoppers another reason to skip trips to the mall: It's adding mini Apple stores to some locations, with more space devoted to iPhones and other popular gadgets.The retailer said Thursday that the shops will open in 17 Target stores this month, and it plans to expand to more locations in the fall. Target already sells Apple merchandise, but the shops will double the tech company's footprint inside of each store, include more accessories and have staff with specialized training from Apple. The brand's products have a new look on Target's website, too.Target Chief Growth Officer Christina Hennington said the dedicated area will catch customers' eyes and make its sales floor more experiential. It will also have videos and displays that are more engaging, she said."When we have something that is uniquely compelling and different, whether it's in the assortment, how the experience is brought together or service — which is a big component of what we are talking about with the Apple experience — it draws our guests in, which then drives traffic, and of course sales over time," she said.In a statement, Apple said the company looks forward to "continuing to work with Target on exciting new ways to serve customers in-store and online."For some consumers, a stop at Target's stores has taken the place of hours-long shopping trips to multiple retailers during the pandemic. The big-box retailer has seen significant sales growth because it stayed open as an essential retailer in the early part of the global health crisis and then capitalized on convenience with its wide range of merchandise, curbside pickup and third-party delivery service Shipt.That has translated to $6 billion in market-share gains as of the end of the third quarter, the company said, citing third-party and internal research. Its stock price has soared, too. As of Wednesday's close, Target shares are up about 64% over the past year. Its market value is $93.68 billion.After its huge quarterly gains, the discounter will face challenging comparisons. Consumers could return to old habits as the pandemic wanes, like returning to multiple stores instead of consolidating trips at Target. Some investors have already grown skeptical of stocks that have benefited from stay-at-home trends. The company plans to report fourth-quarter earnings and host a virtual investor day on Tuesday.Target's leaders have said they can sustain the upward trajectory by taking sales from struggling retailers and offering unique merchandise that grabs customers' attention and more of their budgets. It has launched private labels such as athleisure line All in Motion and limited-time collections with beloved brands such as Lilly Pulitzer and Hunter.It has also tried Disney shops in some stores and featured Levi's jeans and apparel in a dedicated area. It will open hundreds of scaled-down Ulta Beauty shops later this year with curated products and trained makeup and skin-care professionals.With its latest "shop in shop," Target will feature Apple — a brand that's a draw for shoppers and a common hangout spot at malls. It will resemble the tech company's stores with new lighting and lowered tables where customers can try out Apple products.It will not have an Apple trademark — the "Genius Bar" — where customers can get concierge-like tech support. Hennington said Target hasn't ruled out adding that in the future.Hennington declined to share financial terms of the deal. She said it has been in discussions with Apple about the idea for months and collaborated with the tech company to pick the locations for the shops.She said technology played a central role this year in keeping people safe and entertained. She said the retailer sees it as a growth category, particularly because of Apple's following among customers.Sales in Target's electronics category grew by 50% in the third quarter and more than 20% during the holiday season compared with the same period a year earlier.Nearly a decade ago, the retailer tested a concept to showcase Apple in some stores with more prominent display, but the company said this new effort is a separate strategy and goes much further than swapping out signage.Here's a list of the first 17 Target locations that will have the Apple shops:Monticello, Minn.San Jose, Calif.Oklahoma CityAllen, TexasHurst, TexasAustin, TexasIrving, TexasSan AntonioGainesville, Fla.Orlando, Fla.Clearwater, Fla.MiamiNorth Wales, Pa.Newark, Del.Woburn, Mass.Nashua, N.H.Latham, N.Y.VIDEO3:0503:05Target CEO Brian Cornell: Customers are shopping across multiple categoriesSquawk Box

2021/03/03, In this articleAAPLTWTRTwitter's Chief Financial Officer, Ned SegalJohn Chiala | CNBCTwitter CFO Ned Segal on Wednesday said the social media company is feeling confident as it prepares for Apple's planned privacy update to iOS 14, which will make it easier for iPhone and iPad users to block companies from tracking their activity to target ads."We look at the unique signal that Twitter has with a growing audience, with better formats and more relevance and the ability to better leverage that signal, much of which isn't tied to a device ID," Segal said, speaking at the Morgan Stanley Technology, Media and Telecom Conference. "We feel really good about our ability to leverage that combination."Apple's upcoming privacy changes will inform users about device ID tracking and ask them if they want to allow it. The tracking is based on a unique device identifier on every iPhone and iPad called the IDFA. Companies that sell mobile advertisements use this ID to help target ads and estimate their effectiveness.Apple has said that the change will roll out early this spring.Segal said that the changes to IDFA could actually present an opportunity for Twitter to compete more effectively against its peers."IDFA in a way is going to level the playing field. We're in an industry where many were much better than Twitter historically at leveraging all of the data that was available to them, from the device ID to what people were doing on other websites," Segal said. "When we all have the same set of new challenges that we have to face, leveling the playing field will be a really interesting impact on the broader industry."Segal said that Twitter is planning to sit back and wait rather than immediately asking its iOS users if they want to opt into IDFA tracking, like Facebook is planning to do."We don't want to be in a rush around IDFA," he said. "You only have one chance to ask somebody if you can have access to their device ID to show them more relevant ads. You want to ask in a really thoughtful way, and you want to take time to learn from the industry and the broader ecosystem before you ask a question like that."VIDEO18:5818:58The big, messy business of content moderation on Facebook, Twitter, YouTubeTech

2021/02/22, In this articleAAPLA pedestrian wearing a protective mask uses her mobile phone while walking past an Apple iPhone advertisement at Orchard Road in Singapore.Wei Leng Tay | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple will soon let you unlock your iPhone as long as you're wearing an Apple Watch. That means it will be a lot easier to unlock your phone while wearing a mask, which you currently have to remove for Face ID to work.The feature will launch sometime this spring when Apple rolls out iOS 14.5 for iPhones and the corresponding Apple Watch update. It requires that you have an Apple Watch on your wrist, unlocked, and with its own passcode.It works really well. You may be familiar with the process if you have a Mac and an Apple Watch -- you can already unlock a Mac just by coming near it wearing your Apple Watch, for example. The experience is really similar with the iPhone. If you have a mask on (or even if you don't), just swipe up from the bottom of the screen on your iPhone. Your iPhone will scan part of your face and your Apple Watch will give a little buzz indicating that it was used to unlock your iPhone. It unlocks in an instant, just like Face ID does when you don't have a mask on. I tested it with more than just a mask, too. I held up my shirt covering all but my forehead and eyes, and that worked. It didn't work when I blocked my whole face, or if I tried unlocking the phone without being in front of it.Here's how you'll be able to set it up when iOS 14.5 comes out.How to unlock your iPhone with your Apple WatchUnlocking my iPhone with my Apple Watch using iOS 14.5.Todd Haselton | CNBCI tested this using the iOS 14.5 beta. But, once the software is out for everyone this spring, you'll be able to follow these steps to get it set up.Open settings on your iPhone.Tap Face ID & Passcode.Enter in your iPhone's passcode.Scroll down to "Unlock with Apple Watch."Toggle the button next to your Apple Watch so that it's on.That's it. Now when you go to unlock your iPhone with a mask on, you'll feel a gentle buzz on your Apple Watch as it unlocks your iPhone.VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the StreetSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/02/17, In this articleAAPLEpic Games announced Wednesday that it has filed an antitrust complaint against Apple with the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union.In a complaint filed with the commission's directorate-general for competition, the Fortnite developer said the 30% cut that Apple takes on App Store purchases is anti-competitive.Epic said Apple has "not just harmed but completely eliminated competition in app distribution and payment processes." The iPhone maker "uses its control of the iOS ecosystem to benefit itself while blocking competitors," Epic said.The European Commission told CNBC it has received the complaint and will assess it based on its standard procedures.Epic launched its own in-app payment system last summer to try to avoid paying the 30% commission that Apple takes from in-app revenues. In response, Apple pulled Fortnite from its App Store and revoked Epic's developer license."Epic enabled a feature in its app which was not reviewed or approved by Apple, and they did so with the express intent of violating the App Store guidelines that apply equally to every developer and protect customers," Apple said in a statement. "Their reckless behavior made pawns of customers, and we look forward to making this clear to the European Commission."Apple also claimed that its App Store has helped developers turn their ideas into apps, adding that Epic has been one of the most successful developers on the App Store and that it has grown into a multibillion dollar business that reaches millions of iOS customers.VIDEO5:3905:39Spotify, Epic continue fight against Apple's app store policiesSquawk AlleyEpic has also filed complaints with competition regulators in the U.S., Australia and the U.K.The two companies are set to fight it out in a U.S. court in May, and Apple CEO Tim Cook has been ordered to attend a seven-hour deposition."What's at stake here is the very future of mobile platforms," Epic Games founder and CEO Tim Sweeney said in a statement. "Consumers have the right to install apps from sources of their choosing and developers have the right to compete in a fair marketplace. We will not stand idly by and allow Apple to use its platform dominance to control what should be a level digital playing field."Sweeney added: "It's bad for consumers, who are paying inflated prices due to the complete lack of competition among stores and in-app payment processing. And it's bad for developers, whose very livelihoods often hinge on Apple's complete discretion as to who to allow on the iOS platform, and on which terms."Epic isn't the only firm that has complained about Apple's App Store. Music streaming giant Spotify filed a complaint alleging that Apple unfairly squeezes its revenues, while Rakuten's Kobo subsidiary and messaging app Telegram has also complained about the cut that Apple takes on its ebook sales.The European Commission started an investigation last year into whether Apple is breaching competition law by making app developers use its in-app payment system.Apple had a victory in the U.S. on Tuesday as North Dakota voted down a bill that would regulate app stores. The state Senate voted 36-11 against a bill that would have required app stores to enable software developers to use their own payment processing software and avoid fees charged by Apple and Google.

2021/02/16, Apple CEO Tim Cook delivers the keynote address during the 2020 Apple Worldwide Developers Conference at Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, California, June 22, 2020.Brooks Kraft | Apple Inc. via ReutersThe North Dakota state senate voted 36-11 on Tuesday not to pass a bill that would have required app stores to enable software developers to use their own payment processing software and avoid fees charged by Apple and Google.The vote is a victory for Apple, which says that the App Store is a core part of its product and that its tight control over its rules keeps iPhone users safe from malware and scams.North Dakota's bill is the first major U.S. state-level legislation to address the Apple and Google app stores, which take fees from app store sales up to 30%, including in-app purchases of digital items. If the state senate had passed it, it would still have been debated and voted on in the North Dakota house.The North Dakota bill targeted Apple's fees by requiring companies that make more than $10 million per year in the state through app stores — essentially, just Apple and Google — would be required to offer alternative payment processors for purchases through the app store, allowing developers to avoid Apple or Google's cut. It would only apply to companies based in North Dakota.Apple opposes the bill. Last week, Erik Neuenschwander, an Apple official who focuses on privacy engineering, testified that the bill "threatens to destroy iPhone as you know it" and that Apple customers can buy other brands of smartphones if they want. Phones running Google's Android software can already use alternative app stores."Simply put, we work hard to keep bad apps out of the App Store; Senate Bill 2333 could require us to let them in," Neuenschwander said. "For a store owner, that would be like the government forcing you to stock your shelves with products you know lack in quality, authenticity, or even safety."An Apple representative declined to comment on Tuesday.One reason why this North Dakota bill was closely watched is that it could inspire other states, such as Arizona, which are currently debating legislation targeting Apple's commercial power.North Dakota is an odd venue for this legislation. It's a small state, not a major center of app development, and neither Google nor Apple is headquartered there."North Dakota has a chance to be a leader, we have a chance to send it across the hall for further discussion," state senator Kyle Davison, who introduced the bill and supported it, said. "It's an economic development bill, because if this bill gets across the hallway, there isn't enough hangar space to fly the private jets in from California."On Tuesday, discussion of the legislation focused on Apple, which the senators tended to avoid naming due to decorum rules, instead referring to it as a "technology company" or, as North Dakota state senator Randy Burckhard said, "the same fruit Adam and Eve were not asked to eat.""North Dakota is not the place to settle a dispute between companies on what the commission rates or payment systems should be," Jerry Klein, a state senator who opposed the bill, said.Epic Games' roleLast year, Epic Games, the gaming company that makes the popular shooter Fortnite, filed antitrust lawsuits against Apple and Google that are currently working through the courts, focusing on many of the same issues, including alternative app stores and giving software makers the option to use their own payment processor.Epic Games is part of an effort called Coalition for App Fairness (CAF), which includes software companies like Spotify, Match Group and 50 other companies that have chafed under Apple's control of its App Store.The Coalition for App Fairness has lobbied around the North Dakota bill, a spokesman for the coalition said on Tuesday. A North Dakota lobbyist who worked on the bill represents Epic Games, Match Group and the Coalition for App Fairness, and helped Epic Games contribute testimony, Tera Randall, Epic's VP of communications and policy, said in an email."The Coalition for App Fairness wants to see urgent changes to the App Store and is supportive of policy solutions at the state, federal, and international levels," CAF executive director Meghan DiMuzio said in a statement.The New York Times first reported Epic Games' lobbying around the bill on Tuesday.Match Group declined to comment. Epic Games pointed to Randall's testimony last week."The anticompetitive practices on mobile platforms today stifle innovation and subject mobile developers to crippling restrictions. This hurts consumers by reducing choice and inflating prices," Randall testified last week.In October, the House Judiciary Subcommittee said in a report that Apple's "monopoly power" over iPhone apps gives it outsized profits. In 2019, the Supreme Court ruled 5-4 against Apple in a case that opened up the possibility of consumer lawsuits against Apple's app store for allegedly inflating app prices.Last year, Apple introduced a new program that reduced its fee for App Store sales from 30% to 15% for companies that make less than $1 million per year on Apple's store.While both Apple and Google operate critical app stores for the two major smartphone operating systems, iOS and Android, Apple has faced significantly more scrutiny over software distribution than its Silicon Valley rival.One reason for that is that Apple does not permit competing app stores on iPhones, whereas Android enables stores like Samsung's. The North Dakota bill when opened a door for competing app stores when it was introduced, but an an amendment on Tuesday limited the legislation to payment processing.VIDEO4:1804:18Why North Dakota could become the next battleground for Big Tech regulationThe Exchange

2021/03/01, iPhone 12 Mini and iPhone 12 Pro MaxTodd Haselton | CNBCApple is preparing four new iPhones for release in the second half of this year that resemble the current lineup of iPhone 12 models, TFI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo predicted in a note to investors on Monday.The 2021 iPhones could include a smaller notch, the area that houses the Face ID camera system, increasing the phone's usable screen space. They will also have larger batteries thanks to a new internal space-saving design, improved 5G modems and better cameras, according to the note.Still, Kuo predicted that the 2021 iPhones will be the same size as the current phones: a "Mini" device with a 5.4-inch screen, two models with 6.1-inch screens and a "Max" model with a 6.7-inch screen. They will continue to have a proprietary Lightning connection for data and power, Kuo predicted.Kuo's latest research suggests that after a year when Apple changed up its iPhone lineup with new designs, new screen sizes and 5G connectivity, leading to a major boom in sales, this year's models will end up being closer to what used to be called "S" models, in which Apple makes largely internal changes to its existing lineup.The 2021 iPhones will be a little heavier than the iPhone 12 devices, Kuo said. Higher-end 2021 iPhones — the equivalent of Apple's current "Pro" models — will continue to include advanced lidar sensors inside the camera and will feature a display that can refresh twice as fast, at 120Hz, which creates a smoother experience.Kuo is a reliable analyst who often accurately describes unreleased products, focusing on the Asia-based supply chain that makes electronic parts for Apple.After 2021, Kuo predicted, Apple could move away from a notch on the front screen in favor of a "hole-punch" that includes its camera, like current devices from Samsung and other companies have. Kuo said that Apple could release a redesigned iPhone with a full-front display and no notch, under-display fingerprint sensor and advanced telephoto camera in 2023 at the earliest.Kuo also suggested that Apple is working on a foldable iPhone, similar to products from companies such as Samsung and Huawei. He said that it could launch as soon as 2023, but Apple still has technology and mass production issues to work out. Apple could also release low-end iPhones based on existing technology in the spring of 2022 and 2023, the analyst suggested.Kuo said he does not expect that Apple will ditch its current Lightning sensor in favor of a USB-C connector and that he is not sure if or when Apple might start including a fingerprint sensor inside the power button on its phones.Apple moved away from fingerprint sensing in favor of its facial recognition system, FaceID, in 2017, although a fingerprint sensor works better when the user is wearing a mask.VIDEO5:3405:34CNBC tech editor on the Apple-Facebook clash over personal dataClosing Bell

2021/03/16, The Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max is unveiled during a virtual product launch.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCNBC's "Halftime Report" is bringing its segment "Ask Halftime" to CNBC Pro.The contributors answered questions from CNBC Pro subscribers, like which technology stock might be due for a pause and what's the next big winner in the chip sector.Jenny Harrington, chief executive officer of Gilman Hill Asset Management, discussed investing vs. trading with stocks like Bristol-Myers Squibb.Plus, Michael Farr, President and CEO of Farr, Miller & Washington, advises on whether or not to buy Apple shares given its recent pullback.Watch the full video here:

2021/03/16, Store opening at an ULTA Beauty store in PhilidelphiaGilbert Carrasquillo | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Tuesday:

2021/02/25, In this articleTSLAAAPLThe past six years of speculation around the so-called Apple Car have been a roller coaster. First Apple was reportedly building a car. Then the company wasn't building a car, just the guts of a vehicle. Most recently, sources told CNBC that Apple will manufacture an autonomous car with Hyundai and Kia in Georgia. Now that might be out, too.Apple is one of the most valuable companies in the world, and it could become massively more valuable if it can make a splash in cars – the global auto and mobility market is worth about $10 trillion compared with the $715 billion smartphone market, according to Mordor Intelligence.Apple did not respond to a request for comment.Watch CNBC's deep dive into the Apple Car to find out more.

2021/02/25, In this articleAAPLFBStill from Facebook's new ad campaign, "Good Ideas Deserve to be Found."FacebookFacebook is continuing its very public defense of personalized advertising with a new ad campaign called "Good Ideas Deserve to be Found." The company says the campaign is meant to "help people understand how the personalized ads they see help them discover new things they love, and support businesses in their community." It will appear on TV, radio and digital platforms starting Thursday. Facebook executives said the initiative is meant to support small businesses that are struggling during the pandemic.But Facebook has another motive: Apple is making a change to the iPhone that's expected to upend the mobile advertising sector, making it harder for advertisers to target ads to mobile phones and track their performance. The change will essentially take a privacy option for users to share their advertising ID, or "IDFA," that was previously buried deep in users' phones and put it front and center when they open an app. The change is expected to hurt Facebook's business as soon as this quarter, the company warned in a recent earnings report.Facebook executives have been publicly decrying Apple's change for months. Facebook even launched a print ad campaign late last year arguing that the change will harm small businesses, and suggesting online content makers will have to turn to subscriptions to replace lost ad revenue, forcing users to pay for what once was free.When Apple's changes go into effect in early spring, Facebook will begin showing a prompt to encourage users to share their information. The company started testing prompts last month that say Facebook uses that information to "provide a better ads experience."The new advertising campaign is partly designed to spur users to say "yes" to this prompt.Facebook's head of company marketing Andrew Stirk said the company's research found that 47% of small businesses fear they won't survive the next six months, or are unsure how long they will stay afloat as the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns have devastated everything from retailers to restaurants.But he said that Apple's changes "add some urgency to this," he said. "The goal is to help people understand the role that personalized ads play for small businesses, for their ability to grow and thrive, and also the role they play in helping discover ideas that might not otherwise exist, that they might not otherwise find," he told CNBC in an interview this week. What the new campaign entailsThe campaign will run for 12 weeks on and off Facebook's platforms. It includes TV spots done with agency Droga5, directed by David Wilson and voiced by Grace Jones. They feature real businesses and include the phrase, "And yet for every big idea that rose to wild acclaim, there are so many more that never found their fame."The TV spots end with the text "Good ideas deserve to be found. Personalized Ads help you find them.""We want to make sure that [small businesses] are aware of the tools that we're providing, and make that experience as positive as possible," Stirk said. "And then for consumers, we want to drive awareness of the role personalized ads play for small businesses and the ability to discover ideas." The company said it's giving more information on how personalized ads work on dashboards on Facebook and Instagram, and that ads for the campaign will drive to those hubs. On Facebook, businesses will be able to post with the hashtag #DeserveToBeFound, and on Instagram there will be a sticker with similar text.Facebook said it's also trying to make it easier for small businesses to get started marketing. The company is waiving certain fees for businesses that use Facebook's online shopping platform through at least June of this year, and for paid events through at least August. Annette Njau, whose lifestyle brand House of Takura is featured in the campaign, joined Facebook executives on a briefing call. She said personalized advertising in its current form helps her advertise like a larger company, but is afraid Apple's IDFA change will impact that."I'm not Louis Vuitton, or Chanel, right now ... We can't just blindly throw away money," she said. "So what Facebook did with ads, it leveled the playing field for us." VIDEO4:4104:41Mark Zuckerberg says Facebook sees Apple as one of its biggest competitorsSquawk on the Street

2021/02/23, In this articleAAPLVIDEO3:5703:57Apple struggles over the past month, but charts point to near-term support aheadTrading NationApple has regained the top spot as global smartphone leader.The iPhone maker shipped out nearly 80 million devices in the fourth quarter, according to Gartner, surpassing all other smartphone companies including Samsung and Microsoft. It reclaimed that number one spot for the first time since 2016.What's not on top? Its share price. The stock has fallen 9% in the past month, lagging the tech sector and broader S&P 500."It is in the penalty box here, near term," Oppenheimer head of technical analysis Ari Wald told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Monday.He said the stock may have been unfairly punished due to a global semiconductor shortage that could squeeze margins. However, he said the company may be better positioned to weather higher costs than its competitors, coming out of the shortage in a stronger position than others."We would be looking for the stock to stabilize at around $120 support. That's where the stock started to break higher in December, and ultimately sets the stage for a resumption of that longer-term uptrend," said Wald.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsApple closed Monday at $126. The stock would need to decline another 5% to reach that level.Katie Stockton, managing partner at Fairlead Strategies, said upward momentum may be exhausted after Apple's strong runup."It did exhibit upside leadership for the broader market in both 2019 and 2020," she said in the same interview. "It was up more than 80% in both of those years, so that outperformance suggests that perhaps now it's tiring out. I think folks feel that it's maybe close to fully priced, and because of that, they're seeking opportunities elsewhere that they think are more exciting."Like Wald, Stockton sees only near-term weakness before the stock continues its ascent again."It's a long-term uptrend. It does still have that long-term momentum behind it, so ultimately I think we'd want to look for a buying opportunity. I don't feel like it's at hand yet," said Stockton.She pinpoints a support level lower than Wald's target — $110 a share. It would need to decline another 13% to reach that level.Apple will hold its annual shareholder meeting on Tuesday.Disclaimer

2021/02/09, In this articleAAPLTim Cook, CEO of Apple, unveils new products during a launch event at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in New York on Oct. 30, 2018.Stephanie Keith | Getty ImagesIf you subscribe to a bunch of Apple services, like Music, News+, Fitness, Arcade and iCloud storage, you can save money by buying one of the Apple One bundles, which package services at a discount.You'll save up to $25 a month if you already pay for a bunch of Apple's services. Apple's Family and Premier plans will offer access to premium services for up to six people, so you can share with your family.For example, since I was spending $26 for my personal Apple Music, Apple TV+, Apple News+ and 50GB of iCloud storage, I decided to move to the Apple One Premier plan. It costs $29.95 per month but now allows me to share all of those subscriptions with my wife and parents, who were also paying separately.But in talking to people, I've learned that some folks aren't always sure what they already pay for and if a bundle will save them any money. So here's a quick guide that will show you how to figure out which services you already pay for and how to select the right plan for you and your family.How to see which Apple subscriptions you pay forOpen the App Store on your iPhone.Tap your user picture on the top-right.Choose Subscriptions.Move through this list. You may have many subscriptions from lots of apps if you've signed up inside them. But look for the Apple ones, like Music, Arcade, News+, iCloud, Apple TV+, Arcade and Fitness+. Then find out if multiple people are using each service.Here's what those services each cost per month:Apple Music: $9.99 per month alone, or $14.99 on a family plan. Students pay $4.99.Apple News+: $9.99 per month.Apple Arcade: $4.99 per month.Apple Fitness+: $9.99 per month.Apple iCloud: $0.99 for 50GB, $2.99 for 200GB, $9.99 for 2TB.Apple TV+: $4.99 per month.If you add all of those up, including the family plan for Apple Music, you're paying about $55 per month. You'll save $25 per month by signing up for the Apple One Premier plan, which includes everything above for $29.95 per month. And your entire family will be able to use the services.You can even save significant bucks even if you only use some of those services. Say your family uses Apple Music and Apple TV+, but each person pays for their own iCloud storage. A family of six could save $8 by moving to the Apple One Family plan, which includes Apple Music, Apple TV+, Arcade and 200GB of iCloud storage.Lastly, maybe you're flying solo. You pay for Apple Music, Apple TV+ and 50GB of iCloud storage. That's about $16 a month. But, if you switch to the Apple One Family plan, you'll save $1 and get Apple Arcade free (or you'll just save $6 if you're already paying for Apple Arcade.)To try out Apple One, do this:Open Settings on your iPhone.Tap your name at the top of the screen.Tap Subscriptions.Choose "Get Apple One."Select the plan. Each comes with a one-month free trial.Click "Start Free Trial" at the bottom of the screen.VIDEO1:5501:55Apple announces Apple One, a bundle of the company's servicesTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/02/22, In this articleAAPLITiPhone 12 Mini and iPhone 12 Pro Max.Todd Haselton | CNBCApple shipped more smartphones than any other company during the fourth quarter of 2020, according to data released by market research firm Gartner on Monday.The tech giant shipped nearly 80 million units in the quarter, surpassing all other smartphone makers, including Samsung. It's the first time Apple has been atop the smartphone market since 2016, the report said.Apple's strong holiday quarter and the new Gartner estimates suggest the company's family of iPhone 12 devices, with 5G capability and a new external design, is a hit in the marketplace. Those new devices weren't even on sale for the entire period.The numbers also indicate Apple has weathered the coronavirus pandemic better than its competitors.A competing report from IDC released last month showed Apple shipped 90.1 million phones in the quarter. In terms of smartphone shipments, that's the single best quarter for any company, IDC's report said.Apple doesn't report unit sales for its devices. However, the company said revenue from iPhones grew by 17% in the fourth quarter of calendar 2020 on a year-over-year basis to $65.6 billion. Apple's business is seasonal, and the quarter ending in December is usually the company's biggest in terms of sales.Global smartphone shipments fell 5.4% in 2020 amid the global coronavirus pandemic, according to Gartner, while Apple's unit sales grew by 3.3%. Samsung still shipped the most devices over a full year.The biggest shipments decline came from Huawei, which saw unit sales drop by 24.1% in 2020, as the Chinese smartphone maker struggles with U.S. sanctions that have hampered its handset business. Samsung doesn't face the same challenge but still saw shipments fall 14.6% last year, according to Gartner.VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the Street

2021/02/03, In this articleTSLAKIAL-MYAAPLVIDEO2:0002:00Apple nears deal to make autonomous vehicles with Hyundai-KiaFast MoneyAfter years of speculation that it will eventually get into the auto business with its own vehicle, Apple is close to finalizing a deal with Hyundai-Kia to manufacture an Apple-branded autonomous electric vehicle at the Kia assembly plant in West Point, Georgia according to multiple sources who briefed CNBC on the plan.  The so-called "Apple Car," which is being developed by a team at Apple, is tentatively scheduled to go into production in 2024, though people familiar with the talks between Apple and Hyundai-Kia say the eventual rollout could be pushed back.  Sources tell CNBC no agreement has yet been reached between the two companies. In addition, they stress that Apple may ultimately decide to partner with another automaker separately or in addition to working with Hyundai.  One source familiar with Apple's strategy on developing a car tells CNBC, "I doubt Hyundai is the only automaker they could strike a deal with, there could be somebody else."Apple shares rose more than 2% after hours on the news.Spokespersons for both Apple and Hyundai-Kia declined to comment when reached by CNBC.If an agreement is finalized, why would Apple choose Hyundai-Kia? Just as importantly, why would the Korean automaker strike a deal with Apple?Those familiar with the discussions say each company sees a unique benefit in working with the other to develop an Apple car.For Apple, the decision to build a car opens the potential to tap a global auto and mobility market valued at $10 trillion. Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty explained the profit potential for Apple in a research note she issued in January. "Smartphones are a $500bn annual TAM. Apple has about one-third of this market. The mobility market is $10 trillion. So Apple would only need a 2% share of this market to be the size of their iPhone business," Huberty wrote. Sources familiar with Apple's interest in working with Hyundai say the tech giant wants to build the "Apple Car" in North America with an established automaker willing to allow Apple to control the software and hardware that will go into the vehicle.    In other words, this will be an "Apple Car," not a Kia model featuring Apple software.   For Hyundai-Kia, working with Apple is being driven by the company's new chairman, Euisun Chung, who took control of the Korean automaker last October.  According to one source familiar with Hyundai-Kia strategy, "Chung has made it clear, mobility is the future of the company."  That's important because the Apple Car will be fully autonomous. By working with Apple, leaders of Hyundai-Kia believe they will accelerate development of their own autonomous and electric and vehicle plans.  Hyundai is currently partnered with Aptiv in a joint-venture developing autonomous vehicle technology, including robotaxis. There is no indication that joint venture would change if Hyundai reaches an agreement with Apple.  In addition, the Kia plant about 90 minutes southwest of Atlanta, Georgia, has available capacity, so scaling production and tapping the Hyundai-Kia supply chain can be done relatively quickly.Vehicles sit outside the first U.S. Kia automobile manufacturing facility during its grand opening in West Point, Georgia, U.S., on Friday, Feb. 26, 2010.Dave Martin | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesWhile it is still unclear exactly what the first Apple Car will look like, those familiar with the plans say there are a couple of notable features. "The first Apple Cars will not be designed to have a driver," said one source with knowledge of the current plan. "These will be autonomous, electric vehicles designed to operate without a driver and focused on the last mile."  That could mean Apple cars, at least initially, could focus on package food delivery operations and firms incorporating robotaxis.The move could bring the tech giant into direct competition with Tesla, which is rolling out self-driving features for its vehicles. Tesla CEO Elon Musk recently told investors that turning Teslas into self-driving robotaxis could help justify the company's valuation, as the cars would be in use for more hours per day, allowing Tesla to earn higher revenues per car. In 2018, Apple lured Doug Field, then Tesla's senior VP of engineering, back to Apple where he had previously worked, presumably to work on self-driving cars. Apple has also hired myriad other former Tesla employees, including Michael Schwekutsch, now Senior Director of Engineering for the Special Projects Group at Apple and formerly Tesla Vice President of Engineering.Musk said that he once attempted to start talks with Apple about acquiring his electric car company, but Apple CEO Tim Cook rejected his invitation to meet.

2021/02/06, In this articleAAPLKIAT-THKIAL-MYExternal View of the Apple store on Fifth Avenue on August 19, 2020 in New York City.VIEW press | Corbis News | Getty ImagesTesla has been called "the Apple of the automotive industry" for the amount of technology in its vehicles.But as Apple is in talks to partner with South Korean automaker Hyundai-Kia for an electric vehicle, what does that mean for Tesla and other automakers?Simply put, it's complicated. Apple is known for its secrecy and there's little information regarding what its business model would be for a so-called Apple Car. But overall, the tech giant entering new segments — phones, watches, music, streaming, etc. — has meant significant pressure for legacy companies to match its consumer interface and products. A car would likely be no different."There's no question that Apple getting into the auto industry at all is going to put pressure on the rest of the car industry to up their game on their consumer experience," said Michael Ramsey, vice president, analyst for automotive and smart mobility at research firm Gartner.Ramsey said Apple's ecosystem could "all be seamlessly integrated into an Apple-specific car," which no other company other than Google would be able to match.VIDEO2:0002:00Apple nears deal to make autonomous vehicles with Hyundai-KiaFast Money"It means more competition. That's kind of the bottom line. It's more competition," said Stephanie Brinley, principal automotive analyst at IHS Markit. "And it's also very well-funded competition, if they decided to do this."As reported earlier this week by CNBC, people familiar with the talks between Apple and Hyundai-Kia said that the electric vehicle is tentatively scheduled to go into production in 2024 at a Kia plant in Georgia, though they said the eventual rollout could be pushed back. They said no agreement has yet been reached between the two companies. In addition, they stressed that Apple may ultimately decide to partner with another automaker separately or in addition to working with Hyundai-Kia. Apple is already in millions of vehicles through partnerships with automakers for its Apple CarPlay, which is software that essentially mirrors much of an iPhone's display onto a vehicle's infotainment screen.But actually producing and selling a car, even with a partner such as Hyundai-Kia, isn't as easy as getting into other consumer segments. Automotive is a capital-intensive industry with long lead times, stricter safety regulations and far narrower margins than consumer electronics."It is not going to be easy for Apple to break into this space," Brinley said. "It's a very complex industry and it doesn't get un-complexed just because you're Apple."Bloomberg reported Friday that the talks between Hyundai-Kia had "paused." But a car from Apple would likely have the same impact on the auto industry regardless of the company producing the vehicle.Autonomous vehiclesTo assist in hitting margins even near what the tech giant is used to with its consumer electronics, its "first vehicle" is expected to be autonomous, also known as self-driving. That means it is not designed to be driven by a human, but a computer using a suite of sensors and radar to "see" its environment.Autonomous vehicles have been promised for years, but other than a fleet of retrofitted vehicles with such technologies being operated by Alphabet's Waymo in Arizona, others such as General Motors, Uber and Lyft have missed goals or completely given up because of the difficulty.An Apple car – known as Project Titan – has been on and off for years. In 2017, Apple secured a permit to test autonomous vehicles in California. The company used already-built vehicles, including Lexus crossovers, and added Apple technology.While driving may seem somewhat simple, humans – pedestrians, bikers, other drivers – and things in our environment such as animals can be unpredictable, making it extremely difficult to program a vehicle to safely react in all situations.VIDEO4:4404:44Why this tech expert says Apple's 2024 car timeline isn't realisticPower Lunch"When you look at the driving task, the most basic driving tasks like straight down the road between two lines or going around the corner, it's not that hard," said Sam Abuelsamid, principal research analyst at Navigant. "That's not the part that gets people in trouble. It's when you start to get into all the unusual scenarios, the edge cases."Abuelsamid said Apple has the money and potential expertise to develop such a system, but it remains a significantly difficult task. He expects an Apple car wouldn't initially be for consumers, but services such as delivery and ride-hailing in select markets — areas targeted by many current companies developing self-driving vehicles."This is not going to be a mainstream product, but more of a premium product, which is typical of Apple because the one consistent thing about Apple, no matter what products they build, is they only get into stuff where they can make a significant profit margin," he said. "The auto industry is a notoriously low margin business."Trillion-dollar market potentialBut that's the traditional automotive industry. The potential for autonomous vehicles for deliveries and ride-hailing/ride-sharing services is enormous. It takes the most expensive part of such businesses – the physical driver – out of the equation, allowing for increased profits. Cruise, a majority-owned autonomous vehicle subsidiary of GM, last year valued the autonomous vehicle industry at $8 trillion.Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty pegged the global auto and mobility market even higher at $10 trillion.VIDEO3:5803:58Jim Cramer on Apple getting into autonomous vehiclesSquawk on the Street"Smartphones are a $500bn annual TAM (Total addressable market). Apple has about one-third of this market. The mobility market is $10 trillion. So Apple would only need a 2% share of this market to be the size of their iPhone business," Huberty wrote in a research note in January.It's unclear at this time what Apple's exact plans would be other than it is potentially going to have Hyundai-Kia produce a vehicle. Its business model has historically been selling products to consumers, but it has been growing more into services to rely less on such sales.CNBC has reached out to Apple for comment. Hyundai-Kia declined to comment."When I look at Apple and the potential to build a car, I've always been a big fan," Gartner's Ramsey said. "I love the idea of it. It makes sense to me in the sense that if a car is becoming a consumer electronic device, in all the same ways that our really advanced smartphones and other devices are powered by batteries and updated by software, Apple should be in this business."– CNBC's Phil LeBeau contributed to this report.

2021/03/12, A pedestrian and cyclist wear facemasks outside a branch of department store chain Nordstrom in Santa Monica, California on May 11, 2020.Frederic J. Brown | AFP | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2021/02/27, Warren BuffettDavid A. Grogan | CNBCWarren Buffett released the most widely anticipated shareholder letter of the year on Saturday.In his annual remarks, the 90-year-old Buffett detailed how his Berkshire Hathaway performed throughout 2020, a year roiled by a pandemic, a recession and the 2020 presidential elections.The top highlights of the 15-page letter are below:

2021/02/08, In this article.FKRX300.FKRX300.FKRX300KIAS-IDVIDEO2:3502:35Hyundai, Kia could revisit talks with Apple to develop a car in the futureStreet Signs AsiaSouth Korean automakers Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors said Monday they are not in talks with Apple to develop an autonomous vehicle.Hyundai Motor shares fell 6.21% in South Korea on Monday while Kia Motors shares plunged about 15%. Other affiliates including Hyundai Wia, Hyundai Mobis and Hyundai Glovis also fell sharply."Hyundai Motor is getting requests from multiple companies for cooperation in joint development of autonomous, electric vehicles but nothing has been decided since it's in early stage," the company said, according to a CNBC translation of a regulatory filing."Hyundai Motor is not in talks with Apple on autonomous vehicle development," it added.Its affiliate Kia Motors, which is the second-largest car manufacturer in South Korea behind Hyundai, made a similar filing. The company said it was reviewing prospects of cooperating with "multiple companies overseas" over autonomous electric vehicles — but nothing has been decided.Kia Motors also said it was not in talks with Apple.Hyundai initially said last month it was in early-stage talks with Apple, but later revised the statement and made no mention of the iPhone maker. It led to a surge in shares of Hyundai and its affiliates, including Kia Motors, at that time.This month, CNBC reported that Apple was close to finalizing a deal with Hyundai-Kia to manufacture an Apple-branded autonomous electric vehicle at the Kia assembly plant in West Point, Georgia. Sources told CNBC's Phil LeBeau that no agreement had yet been reached and that Apple may ultimately decide to partner with another automaker separately, or in addition to working with Hyundai.Shares may drop furtherRetail investors have bought Hyundai Motor and Kia shares worth roughly 915.7 billion Korean won ($817 million) and 798.8 billion won (about $713 million), respectively, since the Jan. 8 speculation over a potential collaboration with Apple, according to Sung Yop Chung, regional head of automobiles and components at Daiwa Capital Markets."Following the negative vibe from both (Hyundai Motor) and Kia's filing this morning, highlighting that there is currently no EV cooperation with Apple, worst-case suggests that Kia's shares could correct as much as 31%," he told CNBC's Chery Kang.  VIDEO4:4404:44Why this tech expert says Apple's 2024 car timeline isn't realisticPower LunchApple is known for putting a lot of premium on secrecy but the news of a potential collaboration with Hyundai was still leaked through local and international press, Chung told CNBC's "Street Signs Asia" on Monday. "I think Apple was probably not happy because of that.""From Hyundai's perspective and Kia's perspective, I mean, there could've been a bit of a conflict of interest," he said. "They don't really want to just become a subcontractor of Apple, I think they were looking to sort of gain from Apple's strong capabilities in software."Chung explained that it was still possible for both sides to revisit the deal at a later date as Hyundai said in its regulatory filing it was in talks with multiple companies."I wouldn't say that this is the end of it, I would say it's a temporary halt if you like for the negotiation between the two groups," he said.Speculation about Apple getting into the auto business has been rife for several years but nothing concrete has materialized.Some Wall Street analysts see the auto sector as a new market for Apple to grow into, but others caution against the reality of making an Apple-branded car as it could potentially mean heavy investments for low margins.— CNBC's Chery Kang contributed to this report.

2021/02/04, The logo of Apple company is seen outside an Apple store in Bordeaux, France, March 22, 2019.Regis Duvignau | ReutersApple is nearing a deal with Hyundai-Kia to manufacture an autonomous electric vehicle, according to sources with knowledge of the matter, and the impacts of the tech giant's entry into the automaker space could reverberate across a number of industries.Semiconductor companies are among the names poised to benefit, along with Apple shares themselves, according to analysts.

2021/03/10, A sign is posted in front of a Chevron gas station on July 31, 2020 in Novato, California.Justin Sullivan | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2021/02/08, People seen outside the Apple store at Marina Bay Sands. In a shape of a giant orb, Apple's third retail store, Apple Marina Bay Sands officially opened on September 10 this year.Maverick Asio | LightRocket | Getty ImagesElon Musk's Tesla just announced it bought $1.5 billion in bitcoin, and RBC Capital Markets thinks Apple could be the next company to buy into crypto.

2021/02/24, In this articleDRHTim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., waves while onstage with Oprah Winfrey, chief executive officer of Oprah Winfrey Network LLC, during an event at the Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, California, U.S., on Monday, March 25, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesViacomCBS will perform what's become a rite of passage Wednesday, trotting out executives to explain why its new streaming service is awesome and different from all others.Wednesday's event will be the end of an era of sorts. Barring a surprise entrant from a non-media company, ViacomCBS's Paramount+ presentation will be the last of the major streaming investor days, which double as a consumer showcase of what's on each service.There are a certain traits that make or break an investor day. Specifics on price, tentpole original shows, breadth of library content and hopefully a surprise or two.Here's a look back at all of the major streaming launch events in the past 18 months ⁠— the good, the bad, and the ugly.Apple TV+, March 2019Price: Unsaid (later turned out to be free for a year with the purchase of an Apple device, $4.99 a year thereafter). Apple has since extended the free trial by several months for its early subscribers.Subscriber forecast: Not givenTentpole original series: "The Morning Show"Prized library content: NoneSurprise: How bad the event wasLet's be honest, the Apple TV+ event was not good. This event happened in the way back, when people could see each other in person. Apple invited hundreds of its employees, reporters and a slew of celebrities (Oprah!) to explain its streaming vision in Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, Calif. But Jobs probably would not have been pleased. Apple had few shows, limited video trailers, zero library series or movies to showcase and the company didn't even reveal details about how much the service would cost. This was the first major streaming event, and it taught other companies what not to do.Disney+, April 2019Price: $6.99/month, $69.99/year (free for some Verizon customers for a year)Subscriber forecast: 60 million to 90 million by 2024 (since updated to 230 million to 260 million)Tentpole original: "The Mandalorian"Prized library content: Pretty much ever Disney movie everSurprise: The priceDisney shocked the world with its Disney+ price, and it put every other media company on notice. For less than $7 a month, Disney would give consumers access to practically every Disney movie, every Star Wars movie, the Marvel content catalog, The Simpsons, the best of National Geographic and new original shows like "The Mandalorian."Nearly two years later, Disney's event continues to be the gold standard. Disney built on its introduction this past December with a slew of new content and an updated subscriber estimate that has blown away the field in "The Streaming Wars."AT&T's HBO Max, October 2019Price: $14.99/month (free for some AT&T wireless customers). Some subscribers to HBO through their cable provider get HBO Max for free too.Subscriber forecast: 50 million U.S. subscribers, 75-90 million global subscribers by 2024Tentpole Original: NonePrized library content: Everything HBOSurprise: Pricing HBO Max the same as HBOAT&T pleased TV fans by pricing HBO Max ⁠— "where HBO meets so much more" ⁠— exactly the same as HBO. For HBO subscribers, that meant billions of dollars of new content for no extra charge. Unfortunately, even WarnerMedia executives felt AT&T botched the introduction of HBO Max by rushing it out before obtaining a tentpole original franchise. That's slowed conversions from HBO to HBO Max, as most of the service's best stuff has been the library of past HBO content. That's starting to change, though, as HBO Max rolls out new series, documentaries and the entire 2021 theatrical film slate at the same time each movie hits theaters.Quibi, January 2020Price: $4.99/month with ads, $7.99/month without ads (free for some T-Mobile customers for at least a year)Subscriber forecast: Not givenTentpole Original: NonePrized library content: NoneSurprise: Its existenceCEO Meg Whitman chose the Consumer Electronics Show to unveil Quibi, a service built for people to users to watch short 10-minute episodes or chapters of shows while waiting in line or killing time. Quibi said it planned to introduce more than 175 original shows and 8,500 short episodes in the 12 months following its April launch.Yada, yada, yada, Quibi doesn't exist anymore. This service's failure wasn't a surprise. The speed of its collapse was.Comcast's Peacock, January 2020Price: Free limited product with ads, $4.99/month premium with ads, $9.99/month without adsSubscriber forecast: 30 million to 35 million "active accounts" by 2024Tentpole Original: NonePrized library content: "The Office"Surprise: A free versionNBCUniversal was originally going to charge about $10 per month for Peacock, but after Disney came in at $6.99, executives realized they had to change course. So Peacock's differentiator became its price: $0. Still, the free version only comes with some of Peacock's goodies, like just the first two seasons of The Office. And unless you count the "Saved by the Bell" revival as a tentpole original, I'm hard pressed to say Peacock has a must-see original series. Peacock's event was impressive. It was at NBCU's 30 Rock headquarters, in Studio 8H, where "Saturday Night Live" takes place. The Roots performed, and the sushi was delicious.Discovery's Discovery+, December 2020Price: $4.99/month with ads, $6.99/month without ads (free for some Verizon customers for a year)Subscriber forecast: Not givenTentpole Original: NonePrized library content: "90 Day Fiance"Surprise: Its positioningDiscovery CEO David Zaslav took a long time deciding if it made sense to launch a streaming service. He was ultimately convinced by others, including media executive Barry Diller, that his company could own the unscripted, non-fiction space. So Zaslav donned a Steve Jobs-style black turtleneck to make his pitch to investors and consumers in December, launching a companion product to what Starz CEO Jeff Hirsch refers to as "Tier A" services ⁠— Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney+. Discovery announced last week it's on pace to have 12 million paying subscribers by the end of this month ⁠— a promising start.Disclosure: Comcast owns NBCUniversal, the parent company of CNBC.VIDEO5:0805:08Discovery CEO David Zaslav on fourth-quarter earnings and outlookSquawk Box

2021/01/27, VIDEO0:5100:51Apple reports biggest revenue quarter of all-time at $111.4B in Q1Closing BellApple delivered its largest quarter by revenue of all time on Wednesday at $111.4 billion in its first-quarter earnings report for fiscal 2021. It's the first time Apple crossed the symbolic $100 billion mark in a single quarter, and sales were up 21% year over year.  Apple stock dropped 2% in extended trading.Apple's results for the quarter ending in December weren't just driven by 5G iPhone sales. Sales for every product category rose by double-digit percentage points. Apple's earnings per share and sales handily beat Wall Street expectations.  Here's how Apple did versus consensus Refinitiv estimates: EPS: $1.68 vs. $1.41 estimated Revenue: $111.44 billion vs. $103.28 billion estimated, up 21% year over year iPhone revenue: $65.60 billion vs. $59.80 billion estimated, up 17% year over year Services revenue: $15.76 billion vs. $14.80 billion estimated, up 24% year over year Other Products revenue: $12.97 billion vs. $11.96 billion estimated, up 29% year over year Mac revenue: $8.68 billion vs. $8.69 billion estimated, up 21% year over year iPad revenue: $8.44 billion vs. $7.46 billion estimated, up 41% year over year Gross margin: 39.8% vs. 38.0% estimated Apple CEO Tim Cook said the results could have been even better if not for the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns that forced Apple to temporarily shutter some Apple stores around the world.  "Taking the stores out of the equation, particularly for iPhones and wearables, there's a drag on sales," Cook told CNBC's Josh Lipton.  Cook said that Apple's total install base for iPhones is over 1 billion, up from the previous data point of 900 million. The total active install base for all Apple products is 1.65 billion.Apple did not provide official guidance for the upcoming quarter. It hasn't offered investors forecasts since the beginning of the pandemic. But even the lack of guidance could not diminish what was a blowout quarter for the iPhone maker. Apple has benefited during the pandemic from increased PC and gadget sales as people who are working or going to school from home because of lockdowns look to upgrade the devices they use. Apple released new iPhone models in October. The four iPhone 12 models are the first to include 5G, which investors believed could drive a "supercycle" of users clamoring to upgrade. iPhone revenue was up 17% from the same period last year.  "They're full of features that customers love, and they came in at exactly the right time, with where 5G networks were," Cook said.  Apple's other products category, which includes Apple Watch and headphones such as AirPods and Beats, was up 29% from last year to $12.97 billion, even as people are spending less time commuting and traveling. Apple released a high-end set of headphones, AirPods Pro Max, in December, with a steep $549 suggested price. Macs and iPads, the Apple devices most likely to be used for remote work and school, were also up this quarter. Apple released new Mac computers powered by its own chips instead of Intel processors in December to positive reviews that said they were superior in terms of power and battery life to the old models.  Apple's services business, which the company has highlighted as a growth engine, was up 24% year over year to $15.76 billion. That product category is a catch-all: It includes the money Apple makes from the App Store, subscriptions to digital content such as Apple Music or Apple TV+, licensing fees paid by Google to be the iPhone's default search engine and AppleCare warranties.  Apple highlighted in its release that international sales accounted for 64% of the company's sales, up from 61% in the same quarter last year. How new iPhone models fare in China, the company's third-largest market, is a constant topic of discussion among investors. Sales in what Apple calls greater China, which includes Taiwan and Hong Kong, were up nearly 57% to $21.3 billion."China was strong across the board," Cook said. Apple also declared a cash dividend of $0.205 cents per share and said that it had spent over $30 billion on total shareholder return, which includes share buybacks, during the quarter. Apple's first fiscal quarter is typically its largest of the year and includes critical holiday sales during December.  Wednesday's blowout earnings are also a recovery story for Apple. Two years ago, Apple warned that its projection for its holiday quarter sales were lower than the company expected, a rare warning that raised questions about whether Apple was losing its momentum. On Wednesday, Apple revealed that revenue is up over 32% since that report.  

2021/01/25, Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks during Apple's annual Worldwide Developers Conference in San Jose, California, June 3, 2019.Mason Trinca | ReutersApple reports first-quarter earnings after the bell Wednesday and analysts believe the report is shaping up to be a blockbuster.Shares of red hot Apple are up 7% this month and analysts believe the stock is headed even higher because of strong numbers on 5G iPhone and Mac sales.It's also expected that Apple will make its long-awaited return to providing guidance after declining to do so in the previous three quarters.Here's what analysts are expecting from Apple's earnings report:

2021/01/28, In this articleAAPLCustomers try out iPhone 12 smartphones at an Apple store on October 23, 2020 in Shanghai, China.Wang Gang | Visual China Group | Getty ImagesGUANGZHOU, China — Apple raked in its highest ever revenue in the greater China region in the December quarter as a record number of iPhone upgrades helped the U.S. tech giant in one of its most important markets.Greater China revenue came in at $21.31 billion in the three months ended December 26, up 57% from last year. That was the highest revenue figure for a single quarter in greater China in Apple's history. Apple also recorded its highest ever quarter for total revenue as it reported fiscal first-quarter earnings on Wednesday.Apple CEO Tim Cook said the performance in China was "more than an iPhone story," with other products contributing, but noted the company's flagship smartphone was crucial."China also had a record number of upgraders during the quarter, the most we've ever seen in a quarter. I think probably some portion of this was that people probably delayed purchasing in the previous quarter as rumors started appearing about an iPhone," Cook said on the earnings call."Keep in mind that 5G in China is, the network is well established. And the overwhelming majority of phones being sold are 5G phones. And so I think there was some level of anticipation for us delivering an iPhone with 5G."What was behind iPhone success?Apple released the iPhone 12 series in October and Chinese users snapped up pre-orders for the iPhone 12 and 12 Pro in particular. Apple also released two other models — the iPhone 12 Mini and iPhone 12 Pro Max.VIDEO3:1803:18This throws out the negative thesis on Apple, says Dan IvesClosing BellThe iPhone 12 range can connect to next-generation 5G mobile networks which are rolling out fast in China. Apple's competitors already had 5G phones on the market.The momentum seen in pre-orders appears to have stuck through the December quarter. In October and November, Apple shipped 11.2 million iPhones in China, according to data provided to CNBC by IDC. The final figures for December have not yet been calculated. IDC tracks so-called sell-in numbers which are iPhones Apple ships to distributors in China.Separate figures from Shanghai-based CINNO Research estimate Apple actually sold 13.57 million iPhones in the October to December period, which would mark the highest single quarter of iPhone sales in China in history.Apple shipped 90.1 million iPhones in the fourth quarter of 2020 globally, the largest number ever shipped by any vendor in the history of the smartphones in a single quarter, IDC said. Apple no longer provides iPhone unit sales data.Will Wong, an analyst at IDC, said two key factors were behind Apple's success in China — attractive iPhone 12 models and the weakness of Chinese smartphone giant Huawei.The iPhone 12 and 12 Pro were the most-bought models due to good pricing and features such as screen size, according to Wong.Meanwhile, Huawei has been hurt by a number of U.S. sanctions that have effectively cut it off from key components like cutting-edge chips, which has opened the door for Apple to take some of its market share.In China, Huawei and Apple are seen as high-end smartphone players, according to Wong. Huawei has been slowing down supplies of its smartphones to distributors and retailers to make them last longer, Wong said. As a result, these distributors see reduced competition from Huawei."The channel partners see the competition to Apple is lesser now and consumers are also likely to shift from Huawei to Apple in China," Wong said. That has helped Apple increase shipments of its iPhone in China.Other products 'above the company average'Cook also said that Apple's other products sold well in China."We could not have turned in a performance like we did with only iPhone," the CEO said."iPad did extremely well, far beyond the Company average. Mac was about the Company average. Wearables, Home and Accessories was above the Company average. And so if you really look at it, we did really well across the board there."Services revenue, which includes money made from the App Store and other products like cloud storage, has become an important part of the Apple story for investors.In the first few months of each year, Apple usually gets a boost from China because of increased spending by users around Lunar New Year. But in 2020, China went into lockdown in response to the coronavirus outbreak for much of February and March. Now, China generally has the virus under control and in many parts of the country, life is back to normal.On the earnings call, one analyst asked if the "seasonal bump" may not happen in 2021 due to the prolonged amount of time people spent at home in the previous year.Luca Maestri, chief financial officer at Apple, said that during the lockdown in China the "propensity for playing games continued for several weeks, more than a typical cycle."He said that Apple expects "to have a great (March) quarter in China" but warned the comparison "is going to be particularly challenging because of what happened a year ago."

2021/01/28, Apple CEO, Tim Cook waves as he opens the door of the newly renovated Apple Store at Fifth Avenue on September 20, 2019 in New York City. (Photo by Kena Betancur / AFP) (Photo credit should read KENA BETANCUR/AFP via Getty Images)KENA BETANCUR | AFP | Getty ImagesConsumer tech giant Apple easily topped sales and earnings expectations for its latest quarter, earning praise from Wall Street analysts even as shares came under pressure.Apple reported $1.68 in earnings per share on $111.4 billion in revenue, while analysts surveyed by Refinitiv expected $1.41 in earnings per share and $103.28 billion in revenue. Most of Apple's business lines, including iPhone and services, had higher-than-expected sales, but the stock was down 2.5% in premarket trading.

2021/02/05, In this articleFBAAPLSNAPVIDEO4:0404:04Snap CEO Evan Spiegel on Q4 earnings results, privacySquawk AlleySnap CEO Evan Spiegel told CNBC on Friday that while Apple's upcoming iPhone privacy changes will certainly be disruptive for advertising, it's ultimately the right choice for its consumers."We feel like we're well prepared for these changes and frankly because these changes are in line with our privacy philosophy, we've never allowed device specific targeting, for example, and we've always taken a very protective stance when it comes to our users' data," Spiegel said in a "Squawk Alley" interview. "We generally view this as a good thing overall for consumers, even if it's a little disruptive for advertisers in the near term."To target mobile ads and measure how effective they are, app developers and other industry players currently often use Apple's identifier for advertisers (IDFA), a unique string of letters and numbers on every Apple device. But once a privacy update rolls out, app makers will be forced to ask permission to access a user's IDFA through a prompt. A significant portion of users are expected to say no, which is expected to make targeted advertising less effective. Spiegel's more casual nod toward the upcoming change is a dramatically different response than his Facebook peer Mark Zuckerberg. Facebook also hosts a huge online advertising business, deriving nearly all of its revenue from ads.Facebook has repeatedly blasted Apple for the planned change since it was announced in June, and has claimed that it will hurt small businesses."Apple may say they're doing this to help people but the moves clearly track their competitor interests," Zuckerberg said during Facebook's earnings call last week. "We and others are going to be up against this for the foreseeable future."That's not to say that Snap isn't concerned at all. The company warned investors Thursday in its Q4 earnings report on Thursday that Apple's changes would present a risk of interruption to demand after they're implemented. "The reason that we're highlighting some of the policy changes Apple is making is that they will impact our ability to effectively measure and optimize advertising outside of Snapchat," Spiegel said.Snap said it has been working with Apple to prepare for the changes, and plans to provide advertisers with more opportunities to provide their products and services to Snap users directly through Snapchat."The reality is we admire Apple, and we believe that they are trying to do the right thing for their customers," Snap chief business officer Jeremi Gorman said on the company's earnings call. "Their focus on protecting privacy is aligned with our values and the way we've built our business from the very beginning. Overall, we feel really well prepared for these changes, but changes to this ecosystem are usually disruptive and the outcome is uncertain."-- CNBC's Megan Graham contributed to this report.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2021/01/28, In this articleAAPLVIDEO4:4804:48Apple beats big behind phone and services revenue — 5 experts on where the stock is headedTrading NationApple has done it again.The iPhone maker's stock slid roughly 1% on Thursday as investors digested its blowout fiscal first-quarter earnings report, for which Apple reported its highest revenue figure ever at $111.4 billion.Market analysts largely applauded the quarter, taking it as a sign of more good news to come from Apple.Here's what four of them told CNBC on Thursday:Dan Ives, senior equity research analyst covering technology at Wedbush Securities, pointed to Apple's significantly better-than-expected iPhone revenue, which totaled $65.6 billion versus the $59.8 billion estimated:"This is a masterpiece quarter. That's an iPhone number that was not even in the best-case scenario. … We've seen double-digit growth in this pandemic. It just shows [that for] the supercycle, the hype was there. The stock's obviously run. Now it's a reality. I believe we could be looking at 240 [million]-250 million units for the year and I think this is a sweep-the-leg moment for the bears. I think ultimately, this really throws out the negative thesis, if there was any, on Apple. It's a real cycle. China continues to fuel on iPhones as well as services. It's a rerating story still halfway through."Betaworks Ventures partner Peter Rojas agreed that the iPhone business would be a key contributor to Apple's future growth:"We were looking at this past quarter [as] a generational change in terms of the upgrade cycle with the iPhone 12 and the addition of 5G and, frankly, a lot of people who had held off on upgrading their phones over the past couple of years looking for a significant upgrade. Look, the iPhone business is still very, very strong for them, and I think that it is going to continue to drive growth going forward. The question is really how can Apple continue to use the iPhone and iPad as a launch pad for the services business? They've invested a lot in content, in services, in tethering these new subscription businesses to the devices so that when you buy a new iPhone, for example, you get a subscription for several months to Apple TV. … And so, they're taking a very long view at this and the fact that the iPhone is continuing to perform very strongly I think sets a good foundation for that. And so, it's hard to be strongly disappointed from my perspective.Guy Adami, director of advisor advocacy at Private Advisor Group, looked for the possible pitfalls:"It's a ridiculously strong quarter. I mean, if you want the flip side of it, if you're looking for the naysayer, it's the fact that, listen, they smoked revenue. The revenue beat is ridiculous. And services revenue was a significant beat. Problem is, if people want to look for a problem, is now the product mix. Service revenue's probably 14.5% of this quarter. Again, I'm probably nitpicking here and maybe that's what the naysayer can look towards, but again, there's really nothing not to like here other than the fact that it's now trading probably 32 times or so next year's numbers. That is the deep end of the pool for Apple, but again, a lot of people Jerome Powell included, have said valuations in this interest rate environment really don't make a difference. So, I'm interested to see how it does trade … on the back of this."Loup Ventures managing partner Gene Munster, shared some highlights from the company's post-earnings conference call:"There was no kind of game of shuffle with the iPhone to get that good number. It was a real number. That was one thing. That's why the stock kind of dipped a couple percent. And I want to quickly just highlight some other important things … from the call, and overall, the call has been very good. One is that the Mac business was supply constrained in the quarter. That was the only business that was just simply in line, but that probably means that there's upside to the Street numbers for the March quarter when it comes to Mac. And then I want to give ... [Morgan Stanley analyst] Katy Huberty some props here. She did something that as an analyst I always wish I could do. She did it marvelously, which was trying to get [Apple CEO] Tim [Cook] to talk about future products, and she disguised her question about Apple Car — if Apple's working on a car — as 'How do you think about new addressable markets?' And Tim commented that we think about the user experience as important and segments where we can do both hardware, software and services, bring all of that together. Now, I want to be clear, I'm not putting the stake in the ground saying that Apple is going to build a car, but I think that the leanings are in that direction because the future of a car is just that: hardware, software and services. And so, when I put all of this together, I'm surprised that the stock's not moving higher. I continue to feel great about our opinion that this is a $200 stock in the next couple years."Disclaimer

2021/01/29, Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks during a special event at the company's headquarters of Apple Park in a still image from video taken in Cupertino, California, U.S. September 15, 2020.Apple Inc. | ReutersInvestors should consider buying Apple shares after the iPhone maker's stock fell this week, according to Ray Wang, the chairman and principal analyst of Silicon Valley-based analysis firm Constellation Research.Apple's share price fell 3.5% on Thursday, and was down by another 0.7% in pre-market trading on Friday at $136.14.The fall in share price comes after the company announced a record quarter on Wednesday, posting quarterly revenues of over $100 billion for the first time ever. Most of Apple's business lines, including iPhone and services, had higher-than-expected sales, but the stock fell anyway."I think people are cashing out of it (Apple)," Wang told CNBC on Thursday. "But it's a good dip for a buy for a lot of fundamental reasons."Wang listed three main reasons why Apple's stock is a good buy right now.

2021/01/21, Wide angle, ultra wide angle and new Lidar sensor on the iPad Pro.Todd Haselton | CNBCLast year, Apple started including advanced 3D sensors that can accurately measure how far away objects are in its high-end iPhones and iPad, and now millions are out in the world. The iPhone 12 Pro cameras use 3D sensors called lidar to focus more quickly and to execute fun filters and photo effects.One company that helps make it happen is Lumentum, a San Jose company with a market cap of about $7.3 billion. Lumentum's shares have risen more than 20% over the past year, and as much as 40% before they dropped earlier this week on news of an acquisition.

2021/01/14, In this articleCRUSGTATSteve Proehl | Corbis Unreleased | Getty ImagesHyundai confirmed in a short statement last week it was in early talks with Apple about cars. Almost immediately, the Korean auto giant started to backtrack, releasing a subsequent statement that removed all mention of Apple.Hyundai's retreat is almost certainly the latest fallout from Apple's insistence on secrecy and discretion from its suppliers or potential partners. Companies who deal with Apple are held to strict nondisclosure agreements, even if they are public companies and Apple is a major customer.While nondisclosure agreements are common in high tech, people who work with Apple say it takes confidential information more seriously than competitors. Apple tells partners they can't mention Apple in public or to the media, according to people familiar with the matter who didn't want to be identified to avoid risking their relationship with Apple. One person who has worked with Apple described its secrecy requirements as a lot of hoops to jump through.In at least one case, Apple has threatened to penalize suppliers $50 million for each individual leak, according to a contract that became public as part of a bankruptcy proceeding by supplier GT Advanced Technologies.Some companies can engage in limited discussions of their business with Apple, especially if Apple has publicly talked about the relationship and approves. One example is Corning, which supplies glass for iPhones. Apple has paid the company at least $450 million since 2017 and has highlighted it in its own press releases as an example of an American manufacturing company it supports.But its CEO said earlier this year he wasn't comfortable talking about the relationship until Corning's new stronger glass was mentioned during the recent iPhone 12 launch livestream."I have to tell you that it feels not quite right to use Apple's name out loud. I still don't think I've ever done that. Inside the company, we have a codename for Apple, we never even say 'Apple' inside the company," Corning CEO Wendell Weeks said on an earnings call in October. "So, if you could see me, I sound like I'm turning a little pink and I am having an anxiety attack, if I read their name out loud."Why Apple loves secrecyApple's obsession with secrecy is one of its defining aspects — some Silicon Valley insiders jokingly dub it the "Fruit Company." In 2011, Apple even sold a shirt at its campus gift shop that said "I visited the Apple campus. But that's all I'm allowed to say."Apple's secrecy can be tied to its founder, Steve Jobs, who insisted on it. Jobs was a master marketer who perfected the product launch as spectacle, often relying on surprises to keep the show going when discussing new products.Today, Apple still relies on "surprise and delight" during product launches, which remain a key marketing strategy — Apple held three separate launch livestreams this fall to release new Apple Watches, iPhones and Mac laptops. All three presentations drew millions of viewers, who tuned into YouTube to hear directly from Apple executives about its new products.Apple considers details about unreleased products to be a "one of its greatest assets." In Apple's business conduct policy from October, it says employees should be "very selective" when disclosing Apple business information to vendors or suppliers, and they should only do so after a nondisclosure agreement is in place. The handbook also says suppliers should follow Apple principles such as confidentiality."When there is a business need to share confidential information with a supplier, vendor, or other third party, never volunteer more than what is necessary to address the business at hand," according to the policy. "Any confidential information shared outside Apple should be covered by a non disclosure/confidentiality agreement."Double-edged swordEven with layers of NDAs and a limited ability to publicize a customer win, many suppliers jump at the opportunity to sell to Apple.Cirrus Logic, a maker of audio chips, said in an SEC filing in March that Apple accounted for 81% of its total sales in fiscal 2020, which were $1.28 billion.Still, Cirrus executives rarely say Apple's name, and for years they avoided it entirely. In 2017, an investor presentation included a slide with a variety of logos of their customers. Apple's logo was nowhere to be found. Instead, the Cirrus slide included a picture of a brown box with the words "#1 CUSTOMER." Recent investor slide decks simply say that Cirrus Logic supplies the top seven smartphone makers."Before we begin the Q&A, I'd also like to note that while we understand this intense interest related to our largest customer, in accordance with our policy, we do not discuss specifics about our business relationship," Cirrus Logic President John Forsyth said on a conference call with analysts in November, as the company regularly says before discussing its own earnings. A Cirrus spokesperson provided the same statement in response to a question for this article.Other public companies also use euphemisms when they have to discuss the iPhone maker's business. Last June, Broadcom CEO Hock Tan tipped that the iPhone 12 would be released later than usual when discussing its wireless revenue projections. However, he didn't mention Apple — he spoke about "our large North American mobile phone customer," even after a previous deal with Apple was big enough to merit an SEC filing, albeit with scant details.In 2014, bankruptcy proceedings gave a peek into how Apple requires secrecy for its suppliers. In 2013, GT Advanced Technologies entered into a deal with Apple to provide raw sapphire balls to make scratch-resistant iPhone screens. GT was unable to manufacture the sapphire in its Apple-owned facility in Arizona, and declared bankruptcy, leaving Apple as a major creditor. During bankruptcy proceedings, GT presented a contract labeled confidential that said GT would have to pay Apple $50 million per leak. The contract mentioned three separate confidentiality contracts to which the sapphire maker had agreed. GT also said the terms of its confidentiality agreements were required to be secret.Another contract said any publicity involving Apple would require written approval. Apple settled with GT shortly after the $50 million penalty for leaks was revealed. One condition of the settlement was that GT would keep a "description of its relationship with Apple" private. Apple declined to comment for this story.

2021/01/21, A customer service representative works with customers at the Apple store as shoppers return to indoor shopping after Los Angeles County eased restrictions at places like the Beverly Center in Beverly Hills on October 8, 2020.Genaro Molina | Los Angeles Times | Getty ImagesApple is set to report its fiscal first quarter 2021 earnings next week, and analyst expectations are bullish.The company failed to excite investors in its fourth quarter, which ended Sept. 26, due to weak iPhone sales. But the weakness was likely because people were waiting for the new iPhone 12, which didn't go on sale until October.VIDEO2:4702:47Cramer breaks down analysts' pre-earnings Apple callsSquawk on the StreetWednesday's earnings report will mark the first full season since Apple released its new lineup of iPhones and subscription services bundles.The company's stock was trading above $136 a share, up more than 3% on Thursday morning amid broader market gains.Here's what analysts are saying about the tech giant:Morgan StanleyMorgan Stanley analysts said in a note Thursday that they expect a record December quarter."Our recent conversations suggest investors expect Apple to release solid, but not great, December quarter results. We disagree and believe that Apple is likely to report all-time record quarterly revenue and earnings," the analysts wrote, raising their price target to $152 from $144. "In our view, the iPhone 12 has been Apple's most successful product launch in the last 5 years."The firm pointed to strength across Apple's product and services portfolio, driven by 5G adoption, continued remote work and learning and sustained App Store engagement. Analysts added they expect double-digit annual growth for Apple's five revenue segments in the December quarter."Overall, our December quarter revenue of $108.2B is 5% above consensus (we are ahead of consensus in every segment but Services), while our EPS of $1.50 is 7% above consensus," they said. "We expect demand strength to continue and our FY21 revenue and EPS estimates are both 5% above consensus."DA DavidsonThe firm said Thursday that the stock "looks delicious," and it put its price target of $133 under review."As we have stated previously, we believe Apple's first lineup of smartphones on 5G networks are better positioned than investors completely appreciate for the following reasons: 1) carrier support, 2) favorable discretionary income, and 3) 1B working remotely and 1B learning remotely. Further, we attribute the recent strength in shares to investors warming up to this notion," DA Davidson analyst Tom Forte wrote.The firm said it will pay attention to iPhone sales trends, comments on privacy and advertising, and potential implications of the new Biden administration."We project sales to increase 15.7% to $106,236M, which is above the consensus forecast of $102,563M," the firm said. "Note, Apple did not give formal guidance, but it did expect double-digit growth for all product categories expect iPhone, which it expects single-digit growth. On profitability, we estimate $33,525M of EBITDA (for a 31.6% margin), which is above the consensus figure of $31,763M. Lastly, we project GAAP EPS of $1.52, compared to the consensus estimate of $1.40."AB BernsteinThe firm expects Apple to post strong iPhone sales, but said there's little surprise due to a likely strong iPhone 12 cycle. The analysts, including Toni Sacconaghi, raised their first-quarter EPS estimates to $1.53 and FY21 EPS to $4.26 due to higher iPhone average selling prices, a weaker U.S. dollar and strong Mac/iPad sales."While our estimates are above consensus, we believe our numbers are relatively in line with buyside expectations," the analysts said. "We expect Apple to provide 'guidelines' rather than 'guidance' for Q2, but are above consensus, likely due to currency, and our expectation for modestly stronger than normal seasonality due to timing of the iPhone 12 rollout."The firm said it would pay attention to Apple's comments on potential smartphone share gains, ongoing regulatory concerns, and Apple's new services adoption and advertising, but said Apple needs something bigger to outperform expectations."AAPL has had a tremendous run, and trades in line with large tech companies with higher growth rates. At 33x consensus 21 EPS, and buyside expectations above the Street's, we struggle to see case for material outperformance in AAPL, absent a surprise product announcement or migration to a bundled hardware subscription model," they wrote.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO2:5802:58Teeter: Stocks have come a long way since November, and maybe it's time to take a pauseWorldwide Exchange

2021/02/08, EU Commissioner for Competition Margrethe Vestager addresses a press conference at the European Commission in Brussels on October 4, 2017.Emmanuel Dunand | AFP | Getty ImagesEurope's antitrust chief, Margrethe Vestager, has warned Apple to give equal treatment to all apps on its platform amid the iPhone maker's privacy changes that have drawn charges of anti-competitive practices from rival Facebook.Apple will in the spring ask iPhone users for consent to track their data for personalized ads in what it says is a move to protect users' privacy but which will limit apps' ability to gather data from people's phones that can be used for targeted advertising.Facebook has been among the most vocal of the critics which stand to lose a substantial part of their revenue from Apple's move.Facebook in a December blog post called it anti-competitive behaviour, saying that Apple's own personalized ad platform would be exempt from the new requirement giving users a choice of whether to opt in to tracking by third parties.Vestager said while the issue is privacy-related, it can morph into an antitrust issue if Apple tilts the level playing field."It can be competition if it is shown that Apple is not treating its own apps in the same way," she told Reuters in an interview on Monday.Vestager said so far she has not received any complaint about Apple's changes.She said the privacy move is also similar to her proposal unveiled last year to curb the powers of U.S. tech giants and allow consumers to have more control of their personal data."It is a very good thing to have a clear opt-out option. If you look at the Digital Services Act, the Digital Markets Act, these are some of the solutions we are looking at there."Apple was not immediately available for comment. The company has said the opt-out option would apply to all developers who track users - including Apple itself - but because its advertising platform does not track users, the option is a moot point.Apple is currently the target of two EU investigations, one into its mobile payment system, Apple Pay, and the other into its App Store.

2021/01/25, Jim CramerScott Mlyn | CNBCWall Street analysts are raising their targets and estimates on Apple ahead of the company's earnings report, creating unrealistic expectations for the tech giant, according to CNBC's Jim Cramer.

2021/01/16, In this articleAAPLApple chief executive Tim Cook interacts with Year 2 pupils in a classroom, during a visit to Woodberry Down Community Primary School in Harringay, north London, to view how the school, which is part of the New Wave Federation group of schools, had incorporated Apple's iPad and related software into lesson plans.Yui Mok | PA Images | Getty ImagesApple senior executives are measured on key financial goals when it comes to being awarded among the  market's most lucrative pay packages, such as sales, earnings and valuation growth. Now, for the first time, executives at the stock market's largest company are also going to have a portion of their millions in cash bonus pay linked directly to factors reflecting a fast-changing world of capitalism: environmental, social and governance (ESG) metrics.In 2021, Apple is adding an ESG "bonus modifier" to its cash incentive program which can swing the total bonus payout by 10% — executing on ESG goals can increase the bonus by 10%, while failing to hit ESG targets could cost Apple's top brass a bonus reduction of the same amount.The new executive compensation measure revealed in Apple's recent 2021 proxy — shareholders have to approve executive compensation plans each year — comes after years of pressure from activist shareholders. In fact, just last year Apple opposed a proxy measure filed by shareholder Zevin Asset Management — which received 12% support from the company's stockholders — that asked for executive compensation to be linked to ESG. Apple argued to shareholders there was no need to narrowly link pay to ESG since its corporate mission already included ESG goals foundationally.What changed in one year? A lot.For starters, activist shareholders say it is common practice among corporations to resist any resolution introduced at annual meetings, even in cases where the companies are moving in a similar direction — if at a slower pace — and when they are ready will do an about-face."The general posture with companies toward proposals is oppose in every instance," said Pat Tomaino, director of socially responsible investing at Zevin Asset Management, which authored the ESG compensation proposal last year. The Apple shareholder said that this posture is even more likely to be the case when the issue is executive pay. "Companies desire to have a free hand with executive compensation and we see it across the marketplace. The relationship between the compensation committee and the CEO is guarded very closely."To its credit, Tomaino said Apple reached out to him after his measure's defeat at the 2020 meeting and provided him with an indication that change was coming. He said throughout the process Apple was eager to understand what the shareholder was asking. "I don't think of shareholder resolutions as adversarial. They wanted to understand what we wanted and i never doubted they were going in good faith to compensation consultants to study and understand whether it made sense. They could have chosen to do nothing." 2020 accelerated corporate pressureThe past year was no ordinary year either.After a 2020 that included civil unrest in the U.S., the Black Lives matter movement, and a pandemic that showed the financial fragility and health risks across many communities and workers, there is more pressure on companies to focus on ESG themes, such as diversity, equity and inclusion, and labor policy. "For better or worse, this year the world is a lot different than it was last proxy season," said Jannice Koors, senior managing director at Pearl Meyer, an executive compensation consultant. "Diversity, equity and inclusion is taking up a lot more bandwidth in boardrooms." Apple declined to comment to CNBC beyond citing the proxy language."It will enter into the discussion more," said Courtney Yu, head of research for executive compensation consulting firm Equilar. "What happened over the course of the past year and summer has helped supercharge lots of these processes and put direct focus on how companies are looking at diversity ... and just their contribution to society in general."An analysis by JUST Capital, which ranks corporations on ESG (Apple is No. 3 overall, behind tech peers Microsoft and Nvidia), found that in recent years among the Russell 1000 universe of companies about 20% have linked executive pay to ESG goals. That is consistent with other surveys showing between 10% and 20% of companies have some executive pay tied to ESG key performance indicators. Most are of the magnitude of the new Apple 10% swing factor in bonus pay, according to a Pearl Meyer survey from last summer. Roughly 25% of the firms that said they have an ESG pay component indicated it was less than 5%; 67% indicated it was 5% to 10%.Old ESG versus emerging ESGExecutive compensation and ESG experts say the data on companies that have incorporated ESG into pay can be misleading, though, and overstate the trend's influence when the details are not considered. A significant percentage of the existing ESG compensation plans are in industries where they have been mandated for a long time due to safety concerns, such as in oil drilling, mining and other industrial operations where the risk of an accident is an immediate material and legal risk to the company.Or as Koors put it, "Old ESG versus emerging ESG. Emerging ESG is different."If 15% of S&P 500 companies have incentive plans with an ESG component, that includes many with the "old" ESG, according to Gregg Passin, senior partner and Mercer's U.S. executive solutions Leader. "It will be much bigger this year and in future years," he said. A small number of companies included diversity, equity and inclusion as a metric in prior years. "We expect many more this year," he added.The majority of companies that have an ESG pay metric use a bonus modifier like Apple. It allows companies to still rely on core financial metrics, such as sales and profit, as the most influential payout measures, while bringing in newer metrics — which also may be harder to measure — on the edges."Is it enough? Ten percent of a bonus doesn't strike me as being a massive swing factor," said Martin Whittaker, CEO of JUST Capital.Apple's top executives received bonuses in 2020 that were 179% of the target payout opportunity, according to its proxy."It's laudable it is in there at all, and it puts Apple in a minority. That's leadership. ... If we only have 20% of companies tying compensation to ESG, that tells you there is lots of room for intelligent incentive packages that will drive performance even better," Whittaker said.Using a modifier takes the pressure off in the goal-setting process and reflects the imprecision that still exists in ESG. "Companies can't just dive into the deep end of the pool right off the bat," Koors said (her firm does not work with Apple specifically). "The question for them is, 'How do we start to introduce these measures in a way where we don't end up regretting it. You don't necessarily want to be the first one out. You can tell the pioneers by the ones that have arrows in their backs. But lots want to be a fast follower."Pearl Meyer expects more companies will be adopting ESG metrics in incentive plans — in its summer survey the number of companies that said they were looking at adding an ESG pay metric this year (9%) more than doubled over those that said they already had one (6%). "Given the data we've seen, this is still the early adopter phase," Koors said.Sometimes getting started is the hardest thing. We expect to see a lot more shareholder pressure on executive compensation.Martin Whittaker, JUST Capital CEOWhich ESG metrics, and how many, to incorporate, remains a challenging question. "That everything is important should be signalled, but on the flip side, if everything is important than nothing is important," Koors said.Mercer's Passin recommends no more than a handful of executive compensation metrics in total, and only one or two tied to ESG, though companies can have multiple factors considered within each category."What are we measuring? That's the bigger problem," says Whittaker.Climate is an area in which metrics are maturing, such as reductions in carbon emissions across multiple well-defined scopes of emissions types. But not all ESG metrics are as easy to define. "The issue is there has been no generally accepted standard set of ESG metrics," Whittaker said.In the Equilar 500, roughly 20% of the companies tie compensation to some kind of diversity metric, "and even there, it is very broad," Yu said.There are quantitative measurements for gender pay gap or ethnic pay gap analysis, but there is no "monolithic approach," says Koors.The issues should not deter companies from thinking about senior executive incentive plans, though, because they drive behavior and performance throughout an organization. "You need everyone in the boat all rowing in the same direction and the more companies that make a plan like this, it can cascade down through the entire management." VIDEO4:5504:55Nuveen CEO discusses the opportunity in ESGClosing Bell"It's typically the first step companies take, the bonus modifier," Tomaino said. "Companies typically do not reorient a whole portion of equity incentive around ESG, but take an existing part of the cash bonus plan."Even in taking its first step, Tomaino said Apple has done more than other companies that insert basic language into a proxy saying it is at the discretion of the company's compensation committee to set targets for pay, and that could include ESG performance.Apple's move is better than a blanket statement, but "it gives them a ton of wiggle room," Whittaker said. "Sometimes getting started is the hardest thing. We expect to see a lot more shareholder pressure on executive compensation."More shareholder measures are coming soon, and targeting Apple peers among the market's dominant tech firms. Tomaino said Zevin Asset Management will again introduce a measure at Alphabet for this year's meeting."Impact investors can now point to Apple and I think it is a powerful example," Tomaino said. "Our argument is there is no better way to send a signal that it is mission critical than putting a portion of executive compensation at risk. I wouldn't say Apple went from zero to 60. Apple went from zero to 30."Microsoft, Intel and IBM already have a compensation plan in place that accomplishes something similar to Apple's new incentive.An Alphabet spokeswoman told CNBC in an email that in "assessing the individual performance of our executive officers, the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee considers their performance against a number of strategic goals, including those related to sustainability and diversity." Tomaino described Alphabet's approach to similar resolutions introduced over the past three years as "less transparent" than Apple."It is harder to tell if they are considering a change and their contention to us is that within each executive performance review there are certain basic sustainability issues on the table. Our contention is we want ESG aimed at senior officers and need more on what the mechanism is. And we have not been able to understand it over the past three years," Tomaino said.What we will find out about Apple in 2022For Apple, the proof that the ESG metric matters won't come until next year. That is because companies do not actually detail their compensation awards and how they arrived at those awards until the following year's proxy."We have to wait and see how serious they are about using this tool now that they have it," Tomaino said.Investors will be looking at the discussion in next year's compensation section of the Apple proxy and how executive payouts moved up or down in respect to ESG. "That's what we get with any other financial and we are already pushing on Apple to outline what investors would want to see.""No one telegraphs this in advance," Koors said.Apple has increased transparency on climate and raw materials relative to conservation, and investors want to see that metric-approach in supply chain risks and with diversity and inclusion. As examples, that can include recruiting at historically Black colleges and universities, and employee participation in affinity groups."The labor issues in their supply chain are a big issue, as is progress on diversity in engineering," Tomaino said. "Tim Cook has described these issues as mission critical and ESG is financially relevant right now and into the long term. It is time for Apple to put their money where their mouth is ... a warts and all analysis. My message is consistent to companies: as an investor I don't want to substitute my judgment for their own or micromanage. They tell me which are the most relevant factors for them and how to get there."VIDEO3:4403:44Harlem Capital receives $10 million as part of Apple diversity pushSquawk AlleyCompanies should be less concerned about looking bad and more focused on how to improve, but that worry is in the air."What does scare companies is having to report on it, if it is metric you have to disclose and talk about how you did next year," Passin said. "It takes the brave company to be serious about this and put it in, in a real way."But Passin does think we will start seeing purpose-driven compensation more tied to a multi-stakeholder view of a corporation. Moving ESG into long-term incentive plans rather than just the annual cash bonus ultimately is appropriate, he said, and it is a conversation that Mercer is starting to have with clients. "But it is not going to be fast," Passin said. "Holding executives accountable, just like with EPS and revenue, you need to be able to measure it. Metrics are not magic. You need a strategy on how to achieve it and how to build facts and end goals. Many companies are not ready yet."Some critics of executive compensation are focused on the disparity between CEO pay and median worker income — Apple CEO Tim Cook makes 256 times the median Apple employee pay of roughly $58,000. And they say as long as CEOs are paid enormous sums, factoring ESG into that pay does not solve the larger problem. But Tomaino and other ESG experts said while wage disparity is among the bigger ESG issues, shareholders shouldn't view it as overriding the broader ESG-linked compensation discussion."It is the most profitable company in the world and the simple reality is high-pay decision makers should not be sheltered, isolated and unaccountable from what happens on the ground," Tomaino said. "CEO to worker median pay ratio is one metric of how divorced a leader is from what's happening on the ground, but it doesn't tell the whole story. At Apple, imagine the gap between Tim Cook and not just the Apple software engineer but those who shuffle in and out of supply chain factories.""If the company proves that the goals they set were rigorous such that the 10% modifier plus or minus doesn't always end up being positive, if we see examples where they set goals and they were not layups and money was taken away, then give them credit for it," Koors said. Apple's example will draw this into more peer conversations, but it may not see quick traction across the broader market given that so many companies are dealing with financial pressures caused by Covid-19. "The lingering effects which aren't going away any time soon may keep executives focused on financials," Equilar's Yu said. "Time will tell how impactful it is but any time a big name like Apple is saying that they are going to put more of a focus on ESG it can make some waves."

2021/01/20, The Foxconn logo is displayed on a Foxconn building in Taipei on January 31, 2019.Sam Yeh | AFP | Getty ImagesFor a new venture with little revenue, Foxconn's nascent automotive business is off to a big start this year, inking partnerships to develop new electric cars with Chinese start-up Byton and Hong Kong-based automaker Geely to make electric vehicles. And in between came a headline related to Apple's long-hyped and slow-developing EV initiative: a statement from South Korea's Hyundai Motors about a joint venture expected to begin producing cars in 2024 that involved Apple, though the company later walked back the specific mention of Apple among its potential partners — Apple's demands for secrecy from partners are well-known. Deals like those are likely to be only the beginning of sweeping change sweeping the car business over the next decade, as electric vehicles move toward the 28% market share Bloomberg New Energy Finance projects for 2030 from around 3% now, and as self-driving, or autonomous, cars and trucks move toward long-promised fruition. The new technologies open the business to new players with different core skills than traditional leaders that excelled at physical manufacturing, as cars become more software-driven, even to the point of driving themselves.Some of these changes will be obvious to consumers, while others will be more subtle, transforming global supply chains that only later deliver cars and trucks to suburban driveways. Analysts believe some alliances will mean cars coming from companies familiar from other industries, especially technology, with Alphabet's Waymo division and perhaps Apple delivering cars that include their technology, and maybe their brand names.Big deals have kept coming through the month. On Jan. 19, General Motors announced that it had invested or raised a fresh $2 billion for its Cruise autonomous-driving affiliate, including funds from Honda Motor and Microsoft, which will also provide cloud computing services to Cruise and its anticipated ride-hailing service competing with Uber and Lyft. And electric truck start-up Rivian, which expects to ship its first vehicles by this summer, raised $2.65 billion from investors including Amazon.com's Climate Pledge Fund and from T. Rowe Price and Fidelity Investments, mutual fund firms whose presence could point to an upcoming initial public offering by Plymouth, Michigan-based Rivian.Others will feature companies like Foxconn, which makes iPhones for Apple now, branching out into helping new carmakers master license basic software and hardware quickly, and use it as a platform for their own innovations.VIDEO3:3403:34Hyundai's potential electric car tie-up with Apple could boost its growth: AnalystStreet Signs Asia"Apple would never get into it if it weren't both an electric vehicle and an autonomous vehicle," CFRA analyst Angelo Zino said. "Transportation will go through massive disruption."A new era for electric carsSo, how fast will it go, and how big can the change be for some of these companies? At press time, Foxconn and Apple had not responded to a CNBC.com request for comment on these reports.In Foxconn's case, the change will likely be gradual, Kuala Lumpur-based CFRA Research analyst Hazim Bahari said. The core idea at Foxconn is to become to the car industry what the Android operating system has been for cell phones — a lower-cost platform of basic technologies that partners can add to to create new vehicles, Bahari said. Announced in October, Foxconn's parent Hon Hai says as many as 200 automakers have expressed interest in partnering to use the company's MIH platform, and that it hopes to provide components or services to 10% of the world's EVs by 2027. MIH can include everything from autonomous-driving software to batteries to manufactured components, Foxconn's parent Hon Hai said in an analyst presentation in October.The MIH platform includes unibody chassis platforms, suspensions and battery pack designs that can be tailored to different automakers, Foxconn says. The company hopes to introduce solid-state batteries by 2024, which advocates say will eventually be safer, faster-charging and longer-lasting than today's technology, but so far have been dauntingly expensive.The company hopes that building a new market supporting automakers will help offset maturing unit sales of cell phones, but progress will be slow, Bahari said. He expects that the project will generate only about 1% of Foxconn revenue, currently about $175 billion from all sources, within three to five years. "The names I've heard (that Foxconn is working with) are mostly lesser-known, especially in China," Bahari said before the Geely deal was announced. "How fast it happens all depends on the extent of sharing done on the platform technology. They will not all be sharing every technology they have." The Hyundai headline about Apple remains uncertain — Apple CEO Tim Cook said this weekend when asked in a TV interview about an "Apple Car" that he does not comment on rumors — but analysts do expect several alliances, possibly including one with Volkswagen, and the Cupertino giant can develop an Apple-branded EV during this decade, Wedbush analyst Dan Ives says."I'd expect it to be something like [Apple's] wearables business," Ives said, referring to the growing business that includes the AirPod headphones and the Apple Watch. "Over the next five to seven years, EVs could be 5% to 10% of total revenue.''A new profit center for AppleThe usual skepticism about Apple entering the car business is that making autos produces much lower profit margins than Apple is used to — General Motors' profit last year was about 4.4% of sales, compared with almost 24% for Apple. But financial concerns about Apple's car bet may be mistaken or just outdated, analysts said.Zino points out that EV makers like Tesla command much higher stock prices, relative to their profits, than do even well-run phone and services companies like Apple, whose stock is trading at 32 times earnings estimates for this year versus more than 200 times for Tesla. Letting investors think of Apple as an EV maker can boost its price-to-earnings multiple by an amount the market will determine, Zino said.GM recently hit a record stock price as Wall Street and investors become more confident in its EV investment strategy.People look at a Tesla Model Y car at a Tesla showroom in Beijing on January 5, 2021.Wang Zhao | AFP | Getty ImagesAnd Morgan Stanley's Apple expert, Katy Huberty, argues that Apple's familiar pattern of vertical integration, controlling the software and design of all of its products even as it typically farms out actual manufacturing, can likely pull its profit margins in the auto business above 10%. She says the company has already invested heavily in batteries and other components of an Apple-branded electric vehicle."A noticeable percentage of Apple's revenue comes from products and services that didn't exist three to five years ago," Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty said on a webcast with other Morgan analysts. "Smartphones are a $500 billion annual [market]. Apple has one-third. The mobility market is $10 trillion, so Apple would need only 2% to be the size of their iPhone business.''But focusing on a handful of big consumer-facing names underplays the changes about to sweep through automaking over the next decade, says Brett Smith, director of technology at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.CAR's research shows that companies from fields as diverse as semiconductors to consulting, as well as existing auto giants like General Motors and Ford, are re-evaluating how they work together in the vehicle industry, in a pattern the research firm calls Industry X. Indeed, Ford's recently-introduced electric Mustang has won praise as the first true competitor for Tesla's Model Y crossover, and GM made a series of announcements at the Consumer Electronics show, saying it would begin selling electric delivery vans later this year and floating plans for a flying taxi that would carry the Cadillac brand.All-Electric Mustang Mach-E 1400 Prototype By Ford Performance And RTRSource: FordBut CAR's report emphasizes how early-stage and uncertain the transformation is. After studying nearly 50 companies, the think tank says the industry does not yet have a consistent approach to strategy for digital transformation, or to coordinating information technology with technology used on the factory floor.The one industry-wide point of agreement is that the data generated in car production and harvested from monitoring cars as they're driven will become as valuable as cars themselves, Smith said. This can happen in lots of ways, from using data to streamline supply chains and production itself, or by following Tesla's lead toward developing services based on data gleaned from individuals' cars and how they're used, he said. "It's too complex for any one company to be the expert,'' Smith said.The pace of change will likely be more noticeable in Asia than in North America, because existing car companies are less entrenched, outside of Japan, and there's more room for start-ups to grow, said Bahari.But it's coming. Some changes will be more obvious than others, but within a few years the roster of cars and car makers dominating the market may be barely recognizable. And that's before you get to the point where car owners question whether to chuck having their own ride entirely, in favor of services like Lyft and Uber.

2021/02/01, In this articleAAPLA pedestrian wearing a protective mask uses her mobile phone while walking past an Apple iPhone advertisement at Orchard Road in Singapore.Wei Leng Tay | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple is testing new iPhone software that will let you unlock your iPhone with an Apple Watch while wearing a mask. The feature launched in beta on Monday in new test software for the Apple Watch and iPhone and should be available this spring.Currently, Apple users either need to enter a passcode or slide their mask down to unlock iPhones with FaceID. Now, if you're wearing an Apple Watch, Face ID will work the same as it does when you don't have a mask on. Just look at the phone to unlock it.This feature will only let users unlock the phone and won't work for purchases, which will still require a passcode. That's similar to how the feature works on a Mac, which you can already unlock automatically if you wear your Apple Watch nearby.Apple typically tests features in beta for several weeks or a couple of months before they're rolled out to everyone, so expect it sometime around the spring.VIDEO15:3015:30How Apple plans to become a big player in health careTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/01/27, NEW YORK, NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 20: Apple CEO Tim Cook greets customers at the grand reopening of Apple's flagship Apple Fifth Avenue retail store on September 20, 2019 in New York City.Taylor Hill | WireImage | Getty ImagesApple now has $195.57 billion in cash on hand, according to the company's fiscal first-quarter earnings report released Wednesday.That's up 2% from the company's fiscal fourth quarter of 2020, when it reported $191.83 billion in cash. However, it's a 5.5% drop from the $207.06 billion in cash Apple had during the same quarter a year ago.Analysts were bullish heading into the company's earnings. Wednesday's report marked the first full season since Apple released its new lineup of iPhones and subscription services bundles. Morgan Stanley analysts wrote last week that they believed Apple was "likely to report all-time record quarterly revenue and earnings."Apple regularly hosts one of the largest cash piles in the U.S. By comparison, Microsoft had $136.5 billion in cash during its most recent quarter, which was reported Tuesday. Google and Amazon, which haven't reported yet this season, had $132.59 billion and $68.4 billion, respectively, in their last quarters.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2021/01/27, VIDEO5:3005:30Apple earnings: Two market analysts on watch to watchTrading NationApple is set to report on its holiday quarter after Wednesday's closing bell.The company is expected to post earnings of $1.41 a share in its December-ended first quarter, up from $1.25 a share a year earlier, according to FactSet analysts. Sales are anticipated to have grown 12%.Ari Wald, head of technical analysis at Oppenheimer, said a rotation back into large-cap tech stocks should provide a tailwind to Apple."If you think back to 2020, [Big Tech] dominated the first half of the year, and in the second half, they paused while a lot of the strength went to a lot of the smaller-cap value names," Wald told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Monday. "Now we're seeing that change once again as I would say the balance of the market is getting a little extended." Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsA breakout of a "multimonth consolidation" pattern looks to be in the making, Wald said. He said $125, its recent low and a level close to its 50-day moving average, should act as support. Its prior high at $138 looks to be resistance. If it can break through that level, which Wald expects, he targets $170 as the next level to watch. That target implies nearly 20% upside.Apple was down about half a point Wednesday at about $142 a share. The S&P 500 tech sector was sharply lower but has outperformed the broader market over the past three months.During the same interview, Joule Financial President Quint Tatro warned that now might not be the time to jump into Apple. He said valuation is running too hot."Investors have to be very careful chasing a name or buying into earnings," Tatro said. "We think the stock has had a pretty significant run, and we think that we could see potentially a sell-the-news reaction, regardless of what happens."Apple trades at 35 times forward earnings; the XLK technology ETF has a 28 times multiple. "As an investor, I think that that's an opportunity. You take those sell-the-news reports, assuming again they put up a good quarter, which I think that they will, and you buy that weakness, But chasing the name ahead of earnings as it notches all-time highs is not for me," said Tatro.  Disclaimer

2021/02/24, The New York Stock Exchange welcomes Fisker Inc. (NYSE: FSR), today, Monday, November 9, 2020, in celebration of its recent IPO.Source: NYSEShares of electric vehicle start-up Fisker surged more than 20% in morning trading Wednesday after the company announced a manufacturing deal with Foxconn Technology Group.The two companies have signed a memorandum of understanding for the Taiwan-based electronics contract manufacturer, best known for assembling Apple iPhones, to produce more than 250,000 electric vehicles a year for Fisker, according to a joint announcement Wednesday from the companies.Fisker, which went public through a reverse merger last year, has a market cap of $5.26 billion.Assembly of the vehicle is expected to start in the fourth quarter of 2023, according to the companies. Officials provided few other details about the planned EV other than it will be for a "new segment vehicle."VIDEO5:0705:07Fisker CEO Henrik Fisker on the EV market, going public and moreSquawk on the Street"We will create a vehicle that crosses social borders, while offering a combination of advanced technology, desirable design, innovation and value for money, whilst delivering on our commitment to create the world's most sustainable vehicles," Fisker CEO Henrik Fisker said in a statement.The companies said the deal – codenamed "Project PEAR" (Personal Electric Automotive Revolution) – is expected to close in the second quarter of this year. It would be Fisker's second major deal in recent months. The company already has a deal with auto supplier Magna to produce the Fisker Ocean, its first expected vehicle.Magna and Fisker expect to start production on the Ocean in the fourth quarter of 2022. The Ocean will initially be manufactured exclusively by Magna in Europe.

2021/01/22, Apple Macbook AirSource: AppleApple is planning to release a new thinner and lighter MacBook Air that will launch in the second half of this year or early next year, according to Bloomberg.The report said Apple will plan to market the device as a higher-end version of the current MacBook Air, which Apple released in November with its new M1 processor. That device was among three new Apple computers to make the switch away from Intel chips.Apple's Mac revenue was up 28% year over year, when the company reported its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings in October. That boost was helped by millions of people forced to work from home because of Covid.The new MacBook Air will include Apple's magnetic charging system called MagSafe, according to the report. MagSafe was used in Apple laptops for years before it was removed over two years ago in place of newer USB-C charging. But, it's convenient because it allows the charger to pop out easily and helps prevent the laptop from being dragged off a surface if someone pulls the cord or trips on it. MagSafe is also used in the latest iPhone 12 phones, though it has a different design and relies on a magnetic puck accessory that wirelessly charges the phones.Top Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of TFI said earlier this month that Apple is planning to launch two new MacBook Pro laptops this year — with 14- and 16-inch screens and with MagSafe. Bloomberg confirmed the report but added Apple is also planning an iMac with Face ID, which means it would unlock when you look at it, a smaller version of the Mac Pro computer and a new Mac Pro with an Intel processor.Read more on Bloomberg.VIDEO4:5204:52Apple will lead tech again in 2021, says Gene MunsterSquawk BoxSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/01/04, In this articleAAPLMany Americans need another round of Covid stimulus just to get by, but others are using it to build an emergency savings fund, pay off debt, and stimulate the economy by spending.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesSigns of a pricey stock market are not hard to find for investors fearing a repeat of the dotcom bubble. The speculative edges of the market, like the booming IPOs and SPACs, or Tesla, get a lot of attention when investors are looking for indicators that the market is due for a correction. But at the very top of the market, there's evidence of how far and how fast stocks, and in particular technology companies, have run: Apple.The market's biggest company easily topped the $2 trillion mark in 2020, and Apple, along with the other trillion-dollar-plus tech leaders like Microsoft, Alphabet and Amazon that have dominated S&P 500 gains, together grew to represent between 20-25% of the entire U.S. large-cap stock index through the pandemic year. For Apple, there's also a basic, stand-alone stock market metric that shows a big bullish change in the way Wall Street and investors viewed the technology company in 2020. Apple's three-year price-to-earnings ratio is roughly 19 times. But in 2020, its P/E ratio went up to over 43 times earnings.Wall Street analysts aren't running scared. Even after the big year, many see more room for the iPhone maker's shares to run higher, and they point to an evolution in how investors are defining Apple. There's was a major re-rating of Apple shares by investors in 2020 focused on one growing part of the business, the analysts say: services.For years, Apple was viewed as a hardware company and its P/E held in check by that commodity business profile, and for years, Apple CEO Tim Cook has been pushing the narrative that the company's iOS operating system services ecosystem, built around a base of roughly one billion device users, was a big part of the future. In 2020, that evolving mix of hardware and software in the Apple story got its biggest endorsement from Wall Street and investors.Apple services is a trillion-dollar businessSome analysts now see Apple's services business representing half of the $2 trillion-plus market valuation."For a long time, investors bought Apple at 12x P/E and sold it 16x, and that was it," said Dan Ives, Wedbush Securities analyst. He now values the services business at roughly $1 trillion of Apple's market cap and he compared what happened with the re-rating based on services to another market high-flyer he covers: Tesla. "Tesla isn't valued as an auto. Apple is no longer a hardware company.""The multiple expansion for the stock was the big theme of 2020," said Krish Sankar, senior research analyst at Cowen, who covers Apple. "It was always viewed as a hardware name and that that sentiment started shifting. ... Services drove the multiple higher," he said.Pre-Covid, in early 2020, Apple's forward P/E ratio was still in the low 20s, Sankar noted, and that grew over a period of four to five months. "If you look at Apple historically, it is an iPhone story that traded as low as 12x, ex-cash.The services, led by App Store, iCloud storage, Apple Music and Apple Care, are now a $60 billion-plus revenue stream growing in the mid-teens on a percentage basis annually."When you look back at the disaster stories in phone hardware, like a Blackberry or Nokia, at the top of mountain they were not able to monetize an ecosystem. Apple still only has about 15% to 18% penetration of its installed based on the services side. The installed base makes it the most-valued company in world," Ives said.VIDEO1:5201:52Apple unveils Apple One subscription bundle starting at $14.95 per month for individualsPower LunchAll the conversations the Wedbush analyst was having with investors back in March were about stress testing the Apple model and how bad the numbers could get with iPhones to take a hit and stores around the world closed during lockdowns. Wall Street could do no better than play darts, he said, into the April earnings period for Apple, and then services beat by 5%. And then in June, services beat again.Cowen's sum of the parts analysis now places the services business as the majority component in Apple's valuation, at 53%. Sankar stressed that services is not a single line time, and that may make it harder to grasp than a product homerun. As an example, he said many people don't realize Apple Pay became one of the top fintech players in the world during the pandemic."It was a major inflection point," Ives says. "Bulls like myself and others argued that for years, but it felt like we were yelling into an empty forest."The Google, Fortnite risk in the services revenueThe bullish take on the services opportunity worries some tech investors.Paul Meeks, portfolio manager of the Wireless Fund, says the big move in Apple propelled more by multiple expansion than underlying earnings per share growth should be a concern for shareholders. "Has it achieved a metamorphosis into a services company? I'm not so sure about that. Yes, it is growing, but it is growing essentially no faster than most software companies and you can buy those directly if you want," he said, adding that many trade at lower multiples when measuring price to sales."You have a company that did aggressively go into a faster growth, higher margin business and investors have congratulated them for it, but I think it is precarious in the valuation," he said. "It grows faster than hardware, but it is not explosive,10%-15% from the year before and that's slower than some software companies."Cowen's Sankar says that investors can find software names growing faster on a sales basis, but Apple looks much better than many of these companies when taking into account its margin profile. "Its compound annual growth rate may be lower than a classic software as a service company, but at high gross margins," he said. And there is also the market's biggest cash cow of all, the iPhone, which will continue to generate more cash than any other product and serve as an "annuity" as services grows.A significant source of Apple services growth, though, faces a new risk into 2021: the billions in licensing fees Alphabet pays to have Google as the search engine default on iPhones.Google pays billions each year. Lots of investors don't realize a good chunk of the success of services propelling the multiple expansion has come from that Google relationship.Paul Meeks, Wireless Fund portfolio managerThe Google licensing fees are attractive for Apple because there is no cost associated with the revenue. It is 100% gross margin to the company, whereas the gross margins on phones can range from 20% to 30%."Lots of investors don't realize a good chunk of the success of services propelling the multiple expansion has come from that Google relationship," Meeks said.Cowen estimates the Google licensing fees in fiscal 2020 at 17% of Apple's services business. But the services revenue overall has been growing, from $37 billion a few years ago to $56 billion this year. That makes the Google revenue, estimated at as much as $9 billion to $10 billion annually, a much smaller percentage than it was just a few years ago."That is coming down and that is good news for Apple," Sankar said. "But the flip side is that it is high margin, 100% margin, so if it goes away or gets cut in half, you're looking at a gap in gross profit dollars of $9 billion to $10 billion and that hits the overall margin profile," Sankar said.Every year the court case is extended and services grows, the importance of the Google deal goes down. "But don't get me wrong, in terms of profit dollars it is very important," Sankar said.The battle between Apple and Fortnite maker Epic Games which threatens the 30% fee Apple takes for App Store revenue to app developers is another risk, but Ives says what investors most feared, a ripple effect among all developers, hasn't followed Epic's bold move. "Epic played with firecrackers, but the Fort Sumter moment between developers and Apple never materialized."At least, it has not yet. The court battle is not over and if Apple loses any legal challenges related to Fortnite in the future and has to take down the commission rate it charges, every investor will be focused on it, analysts say. But for now, Apple only conceded in the form of a reduction in its fee schedule for smaller developers, and did not extend that olive branch to successes the size of Epic Games. Other tech companies have also attacked the App Store model, including Spotify, Match Group, and Facebook. Congress probed Apple CEO Tim Cook in a hearing in July about the App Store's fees and policies. If commission rates are forced lower and it hits revenue for the App Store, which it will, that is a negative, but it is hard for analysts to forecast what the revenue reduction might be. Sankar thinks it will be manageable for Apple and among the two legal risks that are the most "imminent" threats to Apple, the Google case is the more significant."The App Store and services ecosystem stays intact and grows," Ives said. "Services has to continue to grow or else."Apple is still an iPhone storyThe core of the Apple story has not changed, and may not change for a long time. At its core, and as much as services has grown in investors' estimation, the iPhone's role in the Apple story is undiminished."The most successful consumer product ever, that is the heart of story for decades to come," Ives said."Services, Airpods, Macs, the ecosystem, all of that is a major part of the rerating we have seen," he said, but he added that amid a pandemic lockdown and consumers distress, the company sold close to 200 million iPhones.Investors are the most bullish they have been for the iPhone cycle since 2015 when the company finally launched larger screen sizes. While China is the main source of the demand hopes, Ives noted that in the U.S. and Europe, 40% of the installed based, or 350 million iPhones, hasn't upgraded in years.The iPhone 12 5G will yield north of 240 million units sold in fiscal 2021, according to the Wedbush forecast, surpassing its previous record in fiscal 2015.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsWhen Cowen initiated coverage of Apple in 2019, there were one billion iPhones and a five-year replacement cycle, or 200 million per year. Though Sankar's current estimate is slightly below what would be a new record, at 215 million iPhones, he said the predictions for a record year in 2021 exceeding the fiscal 2015 level of 231 million units aren't unreasonable, especially after a 2020 in which the final tally, while under 200 million units, will still be tens of millions of phones above what Wall Street feared during the worst of Covid."It is not a crazy number," Sankar said, but he and other analysts say the timing of adoption is uncertain and will be key to the iPhone annual sales number. "If you go and look at the telecom history, all the 3G, 4G cycles last a long time and we're at the beginning of 5G. It's the next 10 years."Meeks said there's a risk that a faster adoption rate is already baked into the stock price and leaves little margin for error in the hype about the "supercycle." The iPhone is still the single-largest source of revenue for the company each quarter."There is a lot of pressure that it has to be the greatest product rollout of all time, and what if it is OK, 5G is cool, but not everyone is compelled to upgrade," he said. "The supercycle theme being articulated, that phrase makes me worried. ... Right now, in most parts of the U.S., if you bought a 5G iPhone, you're not actually getting any benefit for another year or more."Apple's streaming content challengeEven the bulls have their gripes about Apple, and the most obvious target is Apple's laggard status in streaming video content."They have no furniture in the palace," Ives said. "One-off projects won't move the needle. Apple can spend billions on making a handful of movies and a dozen shows but when that is compared to Netflix, Disney+, Amazon Prime Video, Peacock and HBO Max, it won't be enough."He and other analysts see a studio deal as a move that could change the trajectory of what now seems like an impossible task of catching competitors in breadth of content.VIDEO3:0003:00Streaming wars are about to get more competitive in 2021: Media analystThe ExchangeIt is not a question of resources for Apple."They have billions, they can easily pump out content, but I think they should consider a joint venture because competition is so fierce," Meeks said. "They can produce anything they want with the biggest stars on the planet whenever they want, but it will take a long time to crank out," he said."It's been on a treadmill approach and the window is closing to win in this area," Ives said. "Unless the plan on buying a country, with all that cash after buybacks and dividends, it has to be a studio and content."The company's cash balance gives them the ability to do many things across verticals, and for investors right now, the lowest marks Apple receives are on the media side of the services business. As many users come off a one-year free trial, Apple lacks a huge content library and content production remaining limited by the pandemic is a source of weakness."That's the box investors haven't checked for Apple yet," Sankar said. "In services, they can do something bolder."Apple and EV hype versus realityIf the EV market is a trillion-dollar market over the next decade, Apple has to be a player in it, but the recent, renewed rumors about Apple making cars which have circulated for years make less sense to many analysts than a strategic relationship with a major EV market player.Apple glasses for virtual reality, and new iterations of AirPods and Macs, will continue to grind out incremental hardware success, as will its in-house chip production for multiple products which has been a recent focus and margin booster. There are some huge potential areas for Apple to jump across sectors, such as in health-care technology. But Apple has to be looking at the EV market as a game-changing product category for its own growth potential and EVs could be the product category which has the most potential to increase Apple's share value.Manufacturing cars would be a questionable move given the low margins, but the high margin software could be a big business. "If Apple said they were manufacturing cars I think analysts would sell," Meeks said. "They need to JV with someone, but probably not Tesla. That ship has sailed."EV software could be key to maintaining and growing the valuation now tied to the services business. "Every part of that services group should be faster growth and higher margin, and EV software would be there," Meeks said.

2021/01/28, VIDEO0:3800:38Wall Street points to lower open after Wednesday's sell-offMorning ReportTake a look at some of the biggest movers in the premarket:American Airlines (AAL) – American's stock is surging more than 40% in premarket trading after a better-than-expected fourth quarter. The airline lost $3.86 per share, less than the anticipated loss of $4.11, and revenue came in above analyst forecasts. American did post an $8.9 billion annual loss for 2020 as the pandemic severely cut travel demand.GameStop (GME) – GameStop is climbing again in premarket trading, up more than 30% after its shares more than doubled yesterday, as the battle between retail investors and short-sellers continues. As of yesterday's close, the videogame retailer's stock was up more than 1600 percent year-to-date. Other stocks involved in the short squeeze, including AMC Entertainment (AMC), Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) and Koss Corp. (KOSS), are mixed this morning.McDonald's (MCD) – The restaurant chain missed estimates by 8 cents a share, with quarterly profit of $1.70 per share. Revenue was shy of estimates as well. U.S. comparable-restaurant sales did beat forecasts, however, with a 5.5% increase.Comcast (CMCSA) – The NBCUniversal and CNBC parent earned 58 cents per share for the fourth quarter, 8 cents above estimates, with revenue also beating analyst forecasts. Results were helped by record broadband and customer additions, and the company also said its Peacock streaming service has now reached 33 million signups in its first 6 months. Comcast also raised its quarterly dividend by 2 cents to 25 cents per share. Comcast shares rose 3.7% in premarket trading as of 7:44 a.m. ET.Southwest Airlines (LUV) – Southwest lost $1.29 per share for the fourth quarter, smaller than the loss of $1.68 per share anticipated by Wall Street. Revenue came in below estimates. Its 2020 loss of $3.1 billion represented its first annual loss since 1972. Southwest shares rose 2.4% in the premarket.JetBlue (JBLU) – JetBlue shares are up 6% in premarket trading, following a smaller-than-expected fourth-quarter loss for the airline. Its loss came in at $1.53 compared to a consensus estimate of a $1.69 per share loss, and revenue was also ahead of estimates.Apple (AAPL) – Apple earned $1.68 per share for its latest quarter, versus a consensus estimate of $1.41 a share. Revenue came in well above estimates and surpassed $100 billion for the first time. Apple's quarter was its most profitable ever, helped by sales of new high-end iPhones as well as laptops and tablets. Apple shares slipped 2% in premarket trading.Facebook (FB) – Facebook reported quarterly profit of $3.88 per share, beating the consensus estimate of $3.22 a share. The social network's revenue came in above estimates as well. It warned of challenges in the year ahead, including Apple's planned privacy changes which may make it more difficult for Facebook to target users with its ads.Tesla (TSLA) – Tesla missed estimates by 21 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 80 cents per share. The company's revenue came in ahead of Wall Street forecasts as well. The stock is under some pressure, down 4% in the premarket, after the company failed to provide a clear vehicle delivery target for 2021.Levi Strauss (LEVI) – Levi Strauss came in 5 cents a share ahead of consensus, with quarterly earnings of 20 cents per share. The apparel maker's revenue also topped estimates, though the company issued a cautious current-quarter forecast amid new Covid-related store shutdowns in major markets. Shares fell 2.2% in premarket trading.Las Vegas Sands (LVS) – Las Vegas Sands lost 37 cents per share for its latest quarter, 5 cents a share more than analysts were anticipating. The casino operator's revenue also missed estimates. The company's quarterly revenue was down 67% from a year earlier due to the impact of Covid-19.Whirlpool (WHR) – Whirlpool reported quarterly earnings of $6.67 per share, compared with a consensus estimate of $6.07 a share. The appliance maker's revenue also came in above Street forecasts, however Whirlpool warned of some product shortages in coming months due to production constraints. Its shares rose 2.9% in premarket trading.Toyota (TM) – Toyota overtook Volkswagen in 2020 to reclaim the No. 1 spot in global car sales for the first time in five years, selling 9.528 million vehicles to Volkswagen's 9.305 million.

2021/02/23, Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Source: NYSEThis is the daily notebook of Mike Santoli, CNBC's senior markets commentator, with ideas about trends, stocks and market statisticsThe jagged, fitful market realignment out of crowded secular-growth in favor of recovery beneficiaries (which might no longer be much less crowded) continues. Sometimes the baton gets dropped in the handoff, which happened with the downward flush at the open as the sell-off in the disruptive-tech/Tesla complex got disorderly for a minute there.

2021/01/27, In this articleAAPLVIDEO4:4804:48Apple beats big behind phone and services revenue — 5 experts on where the stock is headedTrading NationApple reported blowout earnings on Wednesday. Even during a global pandemic, every single product line was up, leading to the company's first quarter with over $100 billion in sales.But Apple is still best known for the iPhone, which accounted for nearly 59% of the company's revenue during the holiday quarter. The iPhone is booming, too: Sales were up 17% year-over-year to a whopping $65.6 billion in a single quarter. That's a big improvement from last year's holiday quarter, when sales were up only 7.6% from the year ago.Apple doesn't provide unit sales for its products anymore, but according to an estimate from research firm IDC, Apple shipped 90.1 million phones during the quarter. That's the largest number in any single quarter since IDC started tracking smartphones, analyst Francisco Jeronimo said.Apple's dominant quarter is adding fuel to the so-called "super cycle" investor thesis, where must-have updates combine with the natural customer upgrade cycle to drive a spike in sales growth. Analysts saw this year's iPhone 12 models as a good candidate for a super-cycle because they sported a new design and added 5G, which enables the devices to connect to faster wireless networks.In a note on Wednesday, Wedbush analyst Dan Ives predicted that the current cycle "should eclipse the previous iPhone record set in FY15, an achievement for the ages in our opinion."VIDEO0:5100:51Apple reports biggest revenue quarter of all-time at $111.4B in Q1Closing BellApple CEO Tim Cook also said in an interview with CNBC that the company's iPhone results could have been better if not for store closures caused by the ongoing pandemic."Taking the stores out of the equation, particularly for iPhones and wearables, there's a drag on sales," Cook told CNBC's Josh Lipton.  In a conference call with analysts, Cook said that the new iPhones were not only getting current iPhone users to open up their wallets and upgrade, but also convincing people who had previously used competitor phones to get their first iPhone."Looking at the iPhone 12 family, we saw both switchers and upgraders increase on a year over year basis. And in fact, we saw the largest number of upgraders, that we've ever seen in a quarter," Cook said.5G remains a potential tailwind for iPhone sales through the rest of the year, Apple signaled on Wednesday. Cook said that while 5G in China was well established, leading to strong iPhone sales, 5G cellular networks in other regions aren't as built-out yet, especially in Europe."I think most of that growth is probably in front of us there as well," Cook said.

2021/01/08, Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) at the San Jose Convention Center in San Jose, California on Monday, June 4, 2018.Josh Edelson | AFP | Getty ImagesApple's App Store grossed more than $64 billion in 2020, according to an analysis by CNBC.That's up from an estimated $50 billion in 2019 and $48.5 billion in 2018, according to the same analysis, suggesting that App Store sales growth accelerated strongly during the Covid-19 pandemic, as people sheltered at home and spent more time and money on apps and games.App Store revenue grew 28% in 2020, up from 3.1% growth in 2019, according to CNBC's analysis.Apple's App Store is a core growth area for the company. It's reported as part of Apple's Services division, which reported $53.7 billion in sales in Apple's fiscal 2020, which ended in September.The money that Apple makes from its App Store has become a flash point for critics of Apple which argue it has too much power. Apple charges 30% for digital sales through its platform, with a few exceptions. Apple recently altered its fee structure, and now it only takes a 15% cut from companies that generate less than $1 million in the App Store.A congressional subcommittee found in 2020 that Apple has monopoly power over iPhone app distribution, which it said gives Apple outsized profits. Apple is being sued on antitrust grounds by Epic Games, which wants to avoid paying Apple 30% of sales from its games for iPhones, which it calls unfair. Apple has denied that the App Store is a monopoly, and is currently fighting Epic Games' allegations in court.Apple doesn't disclose how much revenue its App Store makes per year. Instead, since 2013, it has released data points in January that include the total that Apple has paid to developers since the beginning of the App Store in 2008.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsUsing those numbers, it's possible to back out roughly how much revenue the App Store generated based on how much Apple paid to developers in any given year. According to a press release on Wednesday, Apple has paid developers $200 billion since 2008, up $45 billion from the figure that was announced in January 2020. If that's equal to 70% of App Store sales, then the App Store grossed around $64 billion last year.There are some exceptions to Apple's 30% cut of digital sales, and Apple's figures are rough, which means that Apple's App Store total sales is likely even higher. Sensor Tower, an app analytics firm, estimates that the App Store did $72.3 billion in sales 2020.In 2016, Apple said that apps on the second year of a subscription only have to pay 15%, and Apple executive Eddy Cue emailed Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos in 2016 suggesting Apple would take a 15% fee on subscriptions that signed up through the Amazon Prime app to get a deal done, according to an email released by the House Antitrust Subcommittee last year.But as an assumption, 30% for Apple's take is closer than 15%. Analysis by RevenueCat, a company making software to help Apple developers to bill subscriptions, found that only 16% of apps that it works with manage a "take home" rate above 75%. The apps that make the most money on the App Store are usually games, which aren't subscription-based, but monetize through in-app purchases, which are billed by Apple at 30%.Starting this year, Apple is charging smaller developers who make less than $1 million per year on Apple's platforms 15%, instead of 30%. But apps are a winner-take-most business, according to analysts. The top 1% of app publishers generate 93% of the revenue across the App Store and Google's Play Store, according to a 2019 estimate from Sensor Tower, an app analytics firm.VIDEO5:3405:34CNBC tech editor on the Apple-Facebook clash over personal dataClosing Bell

2021/02/04, In this articleHONCMGHDCOSTDISPYPLWMTMSFTGOOGLTSLAAMZNNKEAAPLVIDEO2:2502:25Jim Cramer: This market's back in rally mode, settling into a solid rhythmMad Money with Jim CramerCNBC's Jim Cramer said Thursday that the market is back in rally mode with stock prices going higher for desirable reasons.Investors are paying up for stocks as companies post positive results from their most recent quarters, a contrast from the Reddit-inspired rally in a handful of stocks, the "Mad Money" host said.And with the Super Bowl Sunday night, Cramer, a fantasy football diehard, drafted what he called a dream team of stock equivalents to the Kansas City Chiefs and Tampa Bay Buccaneers players set to take the field in the NFL championship game."The market's always been a game, albeit one with very real stakes," Cramer said. "The name of the game is finding all-star companies that can handle all kinds of setbacks and still get you to the championship."The major stock averages all advanced more than 1% in Thursday's session with the S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite both closing at new highs for the first time in more than a week. After suffering a negative week for stocks, the indexes are all up at least 3.5% week to date to start off February.Cramer's football portfolio makes a case for diversification in the wake of speculative trades carried out by adherents of the WallStreetBets stock idea forum on Reddit."These players can do that. GameStop can't. Nor can AMC or Nokia or any of the other meme stocks. Those are for practice, this lineup is for posterity.Cramer's starting line up stocks and his takeaways:Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsQuarterbackApple: "If Tom Brady were a stock … he'd be Apple," Cramer said. "Apple, like Brady, is the most consistent player in the game. Frankly, this is an easy call especially now that Apple's getting into the car business."Running backNike: "Fleet and sure-footed in any weather, it's a natural for the position," the host said.ReceiversAmazon: "This stock was made for this position. If you throw the ball at Amazon, you know it'll be caught," he said.Tesla: "Sly, racking up yardage by being at the right place at the right time, which, of course, is Tesla," Cramer said. "You have that mercurial factor, but that's practically a job requirement for a wide receiver."Alphabet: "I want Alphabet. Didn't the company formerly known as Google win your respect this week with that incredible quarter? Can you really keep that one out of the lineup? Alphabet just quietly goes about catching," he said. "It's doing its thing. It's integral to the game."Tight endMicrosoft: "Azure's the hands, the operating system does the blocking and Linked-In's a spectacular catch in the corner," Cramer said.CenterWalmart: "We need Walmart at center because more people go to Walmart than any other store. Perfect synergy," he said. "The stock's down way too much right now, so you're really getting a bargain."GuardsPayPal: "I want to go with PayPal, which is more of a blocking and tackling company than people realize," Cramer said. "After the quarter they reported last night, it's clear the company's finally hitting its stride."Disney: "When the pandemic got vicious, Disney managed to pivot. They played hurt better than most players play healthy," he said. "Somehow a business based on crowds and sports proved tough enough to become a finesse fiend at the right moment thanks to Disney+."TacklesCostco: "Just last night Costco delivered an extraordinary monthly sales number. The market yawned," Cramer said. "I don't care, no one's getting past Costco."Home Depot: "It's a bone crusher and yet it's still nimble. I can see a running back following Home Depot all the way down to victory," he said.KickerChipotle: "We value consistency above all else with a kicker. That means we're going to go with CMG, Chipotle, which just put up amazingly consistent results, even when its stores were closed," Cramer said. "Didn't matter. They found a way to get the ball between the uprights, no matter what.DefenseHoneywell: "Who plays defense better than Honeywell? Here's a company that reinvented itself as the first real industrial software play," he said.Disclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Honeywell, Apple, Costco, Walmart, Disney, Amazon and Nike.DisclaimerQuestions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2021/01/08, In this article.FKRX300.FKRX300The logo of Hyundai is shown at the #WeAreMobility fair at the 97th edition of the Brussels Motor Show on 18 January 2019, in Brussels.Dirk Waem | AFP via Getty ImagesSINGAPORE — Shares of Hyundai Motor surged 19% after the South Korean automaker said it was in early-stage talks with Apple over potentially working together to develop an electric car."We understand that Apple is in discussion with a variety of global automakers, including Hyundai Motor. As the discussion is at its early stage, nothing has been decided," a representative from Hyundai Motor told CNBC's Chery Kang.The statement followed a local report from the Korea Economic Daily that said Apple suggested the tie-up and Hyundai Motor was reviewing the terms. The report said both electric vehicle production as well as battery development were included in the proposal, and that the car could potentially be released in 2027.Apple declined to comment on the report.Hyundai later released an updated statement that avoided the mention of Apple and said, "We've been receiving requests of potential cooperation from diverse companies regarding development of autonomous driving EVs, but no decisions have been made as discussions are in early stage."Shares of Hyundai Motor and its affiliates popped in South Korea.Hyundai Motor rose 19.42%, Hyundai Wia added 21.33%, Hyundai Mobis gained 18.06% and Hyundai Glovis was up 0.75%. Shares of Hyundai affiliate Kia Motors, which is the second-largest automobile manufacturer in South Korea, surged 8.41%.Apple's carSpeculation about an Apple car has been rife for several years but nothing concrete has materialized."Over the last six years we have seen many twists and turns in Apple's automotive ambitions," analysts Daniel Ives and Strecker Backe from Wedbush Securities, said in a note."Project Titan as its been known within the halls of Cupertino has ultimately been significantly scaled down from its initial ramp a few years ago and now appears to be front and center again on the radar screen of the Street," they said.Citing sources familiar with the matter, Reuters last month reported that Apple was moving forward with its self-driving car technology. The report said the iPhone-maker was targeting to produce a passenger vehicle by 2024 that could include its own breakthrough battery technology.While the report sent shares soaring for companies that build parts for autonomous cars, prominent Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo said the hype was purely on speculation that some of those companies may supply parts for the Apple car.Kuo warned that the market was "too bullish" on the Apple car and said he wouldn't be surprised if the vehicle doesn't launch until 2028 or later.Heavy investments, low marginsWhile Apple's current business is based on selling premium computers, phones and accessories, cars are a different sector than Apple's traditional strength. While some Wall Street analysts see the automotive sector as a new market for Apple to grow into, others say the reality of making an Apple-branded car could potentially mean heavy investments for low margins.Ives and Backe said they would assign a 35%-40% chance of Apple launching its own standalone car due to the "Herculean-like auto production capabilities, battery technology ramp, financial model implications, and regulatory hurdles involved in such a game changing initiative.""In addition, on the autonomous front and given safety/regulatory issues we would see a longer timeframe if Apple ultimately heads down this path especially given the cautious DNA of Cook & Co. in launching new products," the Wedbush analysts said. They added that partnerships are "likely the first step" for Apple in this space.— CNBC's Chery Kang contributed to this reportVIDEO3:3403:34Hyundai's potential electric car tie-up with Apple could boost its growth: AnalystStreet Signs Asia

2021/01/28, In this articleFBTim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple, speaks at the 2019 Dreamforce conference in San Francisco on November 19, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple CEO Tim Cook on Thursday linked Facebook's business model, which used data to serve targeted ads, with real-world consequences like violence or reducing public trust in vaccines.Cook's speech at a data privacy conference in Brussels did not mention Facebook by name, but the social media company was clearly a target of the Apple CEO's warning."If a business is built on misleading users, on data exploitation, on choices that are no choices at all, it does not deserve our praise. It deserves reform," Cook said.Cook also criticized recommendation algorithms that suggest extremist groups to users, as Facebook has been under fire for doing. On Wednesday, Facebook said it will no longer automatically recommend political groups.VIDEO4:4104:41Mark Zuckerberg says Facebook sees Apple as one of its biggest competitorsSquawk on the StreetCook also said he believes that some companies reward content that could undermine public trust in vaccinations to boost engagement."At a moment of rampant disinformation and conspiracy theories juiced by algorithms, we can no longer turn a blind eye to a theory of technology that says all engagement is good and the longer the better," Cook said.The speech comes as the battle between the Silicon Valley rivals heats up, particularly about a new iPhone feature called App Tracking Transparency, which will force apps to ask for user permission to access an important device identifier that's used by companies like Facebook and Google to serve and measure mobile ads.Cook's comments also come amid questions about whether Facebook's algorithms and tools were used to supercharge the pro-Trump riot on Capitol Hill on Jan. 6. Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg was already forced to defend the company, saying that rioters who were planning violence were "largely" not organized on Facebook."It is long past time to stop pretending that this approach doesn't cover the costs of polarization, of lost trust, of violence," Cook said. "A social dilemma cannot be allowed to cause a social catastrophe."On Wednesday, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg slammed the App Tracking Transparency change, and said that Apple was its biggest competitor. He also implied that Apple is using privacy as a justification to disadvantage Facebook."Apple has every incentive to use their dominant platform position to interfere with how our apps and other apps work, which they regularly do to preference their own," Zuckerberg said.Apple told CNBC on Wednesday that the next beta version of its iPhone operating system will start to enforce app tracking, which means the change will go into effect for everyone soon — Apple says it will happen in "early spring."Correction: An earlier version of this story misquoted a sentence of Tim Cook's speech. The correct quote is: "It deserves reform."VIDEO5:4405:44Tim Cook says Parler can get back on the App Store if it complies with terms of serviceSquawk on the Street

2021/01/13, In this articleAAPLApple CEO Tim Cook speaks during a special event at the company's headquarters of Apple Park in a still image from video taken in Cupertino, California, U.S. September 15, 2020.Apple Inc. | ReutersApple on Wednesday announced its latest set of major donations as part of its $100 million initiative to help dismantle systemic barriers and promote racial equality for people of color.The company split the first round into three projects, including a $25 million donation to the Propel Center, a learning hub for Historically Black Colleges and Universities. It will also launch the Apple Developer Academy to support coding students in Detroit, and venture capital funding for Black and Brown founders.CEO Tim Cook announced the Racial Equity and Justice Initiative in June, following the killings of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor. Lisa Jackson, the company's vice president of Environment, Policy and Social Initiatives, leads the program.Many large tech companies announced hefty donations to support racial equality over the summer, but Apple's was among the largest and it's one of the few to set up an initiative.In addition to its work with the Propel Center, Apple said it will also establish two grants to support HBCU engineering programs. The company will also offer scholarships to 100 new Apple Scholars from underrepresented communities, it said.The company expects to open its Detroit Apple Developer Academy later this year. In collaboration with Michigan State University, Apple said its Academy will offer two programs: A 30-day introductory program and a more intensive 10-to-12 month program. The company said it expects roughly 1,000 students each year.Also as part of its efforts, Apple will invest $10 million with Harlem Capital, an early-stage New York City VC firm, to help invest in 1,000 companies with diverse founders over the next 20 years."The firm will offer guidance and mentorship to students at the Detroit Developer Academy and participants in Apple's Entrepreneur Camp for Black Founders and Developers. Apple will also support Harlem Capital's internship program, focused on opening doors for aspiring women and minority investors," the company said.Apple added it will invest $25 million in Siebert Williams Shank's Clear Vision Impact Fund, which provides capital to small and medium sized businesses, with an emphasis on minority-owned companies.Correction: These are Apple's latest initiatives as part of its $100 million commitment, not the first.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2021/01/15, In this articleAAPLThe 2020 MacBook Air on the left versus the 2020 13-inch MacBook Pro on the right.Todd Haselton | CNBCTFI's Ming-Chi Kuo, one of the top Apple analysts, said in a note Friday that Apple will launch two new MacBook Pro models this year with 14- and 16-inch screens, a new design and the return of MagSafe charging ports.MagSafe charging used to appear in MacBook designs before Apple moved to USB-C charging in recent years. People like it because the cord pops in and pulls out easily, preventing the risk of damage to the laptop if someone pulls the cord. Apple recently revived the MagSafe branding with the latest iPhone 12 models, which charge with a magnetic puck that attaches to the back of the phones."The MacBook Pro has not changed the form factor design for five years," Kuo said. "We believe that the launch of two all-new design MacBook Pro models in 3Q21 will attract consumers' attention and boost the replacement demand."Apple Mac revenue was up 28% year over year, when the company reported its fiscal fourth-quarter 2020 earnings in October. There's been a clear boost in demand as people work from home due to the ongoing spread of Covid-19. Apple also released the first computers with its new M1 chip in late 2020. But, the computers look the same as earlier models and the MacBook Pro is long overdue for a design change.Kuo said Apple plans to get rid of the curved edges and will adopt sharper lines, making the edges look a bit more like the angled edges of the iPhone 12, the iPad Air and the iPad Pro. Kuo said Apple will remove the Touch Bar, which lets people tap shortcuts on a touch screen at the top of their keyboard."Benefited from the replacement demand of new models, we predict that the total MacBook shipments will significantly grow by 25-30% YoY to 20 mn units in 2021," Kuo said in the note.VIDEO3:0403:04Apple computers with its new M1 chip are getting rave reviewsTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/01/09, A general view of the the Parler app icon displayed on an iPhone on January 9, 2021 in London, England.Hollie Adams | Getty Images News | Getty ImagesApple removed Parler, an app popular with Trump supporters, from its iPhone App Store on Saturday.Apple said that posts on the pro-Trump social network related to the U.S. Capitol riot last week included calls for violence, which violates Apple's rules against objectionable content."We have always supported diverse points of view being represented on the App Store, but there is no place on our platform for threats of violence and illegal activity," an Apple representative said in a statement. "Parler has not taken adequate measures to address the proliferation of these threats to people's safety. We have suspended Parler from the App Store until they resolve these issues."Google removed Parler from its Android app store, Google Play, on Friday.The removal of the app comes in the wake of the violence at the U.S. Capitol by Trump supporters on Wednesday that left five dead. The violence has renewed calls for social media and technology companies to more closely moderate their platforms, especially when it comes to calls to incite violence.Twitter permanently banned President Donald Trump's personal account on Friday because it felt that Trump's most recent tweets were inciting violence, while Facebook prevented Trump from posting through the inauguration later this month.Parler was launched in 2018, and it emerged earlier this year as a pro-Trump alternative to Twitter with less content moderation. "We're a community town square, an open town square, with no censorship," Parler CEO John Matze said in June. "If you can say it on the street of New York, you can say it on Parler."Parler remains accessible though a web browser, which Apple has previously pointed to as a way to reach iPhone users without requiring Apple's approval.Apple has not faced the same content moderation challenges as companies like Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter. It doesn't operate many platforms where users post or trade opinions.But Apple does exercise control over its App Store, which is the only way to install apps on an iPhone. Apple removes apps regularly for violating its lengthy guidelines, and has previously banned apps popular with right-wing users, including the Infowars app in 2018, and before that, Qdrops, an app related to the Qanon conspiracy theory.In a message sent to Parler on Saturday, Apple said that the social media app was failing to moderate and remove content that encourages illegal activity, citing two Apple guidelines, one prohibiting objectionable content and one that requires apps with user-generated content to filter out potentially harmful posts."Parler has not upheld its commitment to moderate and remove harmful or dangerous content encouraging violence and illegal activity, and is not in compliance with the App Store Review Guidelines," according to Apple's message.A previous message from Apple sent on Friday, reported by Buzzfeed, and posted in part by the Parler CEO on his account, cited a tweet from activist group Sleeping Giants with screenshots of the Parler app, including one where a user called on his followers to attend the inauguration "carrying our weapons." Apple gave Parler 24 hours to add content moderation to its app or Apple would remove it.Parler didn't immediately return a request for comment on Friday. "Anyone who buys an Apple phone is apparently a user. Apparently they know what is best for you by telling you which apps you may and may not use," Matze, its CEO, said in a post on Parler.VIDEO4:4004:40Parler CEO on fact-checking social media contentSquawk Box

2021/02/08, The exterior of a Tyson Fresh Meats plant is seen on May 1, 2020 in Wallula, Washington. Over 150 workers at the plant have tested positive for COVID-19, according to local health officials.David Ryder | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Monday.

2021/01/07, A man plays a game on a smartphone.Brent Levin | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe Federal Trade Commission said Thursday it has settled with mobile advertising company Tapjoy over claims it used false advertising offers for the promise of in-game rewards that weren't given. But regulators also said Apple and Google helped create the environment that squeezes mobile gaming industry players and incentivizes them to find other monetization models that may have unsavory consequences for consumers.Tapjoy runs a platform that lets users complete activities, like signing up for a free trial or downloading and running an app, in exchange for in-game virtual currency. It earns commissions from third-party advertisers who want to entice users to perform these tasks. The FTC said in a statement that hundreds of thousands consumers complained they had never received promised awards. Some spent "significant [amounts] of money completing various Tapjoy offers" or revealed sensitive information like medical history or contact information.Democratic Commissioners Rohit Chopra and Rebecca Kelly Slaughter said in a statement they sought to address the conduct of Tapjoy against the backdrop of massive growth of the mobile gaming market.  "It appears that Tapjoy amplified false offers by its business partners, who baited gamers with big rewards only to cheat them when it was time to pay up," they wrote. "Tapjoy did little to clean up the mess, even when hundreds of thousands of gamers filed complaints. This also harmed developers of mobile games, who were cheated of advertising revenue they were entitled to."But the commissioners widened their criticism in their statement, saying Tapjoy was "a minnow next to the gatekeeping giants of the mobile gaming industry, Apple and Google." "By controlling the dominant app stores, these firms enjoy vast power to impose taxes and regulations on the mobile gaming industry, which was generating nearly $70 billion annually even before the pandemic," they said. The commissioners added that those "gatekeepers" can harm developers and innovation, and that under "heavy taxation" from those major players, developers have been pushed to "alternative monetization models that rely on surveillance, manipulation, and other harmful practices." Both Apple and Google charge up to 30% for sales through their platforms, with a few exceptions. "By offering a platform connecting advertisers, gamers, and game developers, Tapjoy allows these developers to generate advertising revenue that Apple and Google do not tax," the statement reads. "But this monetization model also creates opportunities for fraud…"  Both companies have faced legal action over their mobile app store fees, which outspoken developers have complained are exorbitant. One such developer is Epic Games, which filed suit against both companies, claiming they engage in anticompetitive practices. Apple filed a countersuit. Google also faces separate antitrust suits from the Justice Department and several coalitions of states. Apple pointed to CEO Tim Cook's congressional testimony last year, where he said, "for the vast majority of apps on the App Store, developers keep 100 percent of the money they make. The only apps that are subject to a commission are those where the developer acquires a customer on an Apple device and where the features or services would be experienced and consumed on an Apple device." Google declined to comment.Settlement detailsThe proposed settlement bans Tapjoy from misrepresenting the rewards and terms it offers, and must also monitor its advertisers to ensure they're following through on promised rewards. The FTC said when it issues a consent order on a final basis, it carries the force of law for future actions, and said each violation of such orders can result in penalties of up to $43,280.  In a statement, Tapjoy's CEO Jeff Drobick said the FTC had raised concerns about its reward delivery back in 2017. "Over the past 3 years, we have enhanced the rewarding process and customer interaction, and worked to reach a resolution that we believe benefits consumers, Tapjoy's partners, and our business overall," he said in an emailed statement. "In accordance with our agreement with the FTC, we will further increase our efforts with advertisers to improve the clarity and transparency of their offers, and we will add enhancements to our offer testing and reward monitoring processes."The commission voted 5-0 in favor of the settlement with Tapjoy, but the statement targeting Apple and Google included only the Democratic commissioners' names. Those commissioners will soon have more sway in the agency when a third Democrat is confirmed to the panel. It's unclear when exactly that would happen, though it's common for FTC chairs to vacate their posts around presidential transitions. While a new chair or commissioner (if one of the current Democrats is elevated to the chairmanship) will need to be confirmed by the Senate, that process may be smoother than initially expected as Democrats are projected to secure a slim majority in the chamber.

2021/01/05, Tim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple, speaks at the 2019 Dreamforce conference in San Francisco on November 19, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple's board of directors regularly discusses antitrust risks, the company said on Tuesday in an annual filing.The language, which is new in this year's proxy statement, highlights how regulatory pressure and antitrust issues have become a significant risk for Apple as policymakers increasingly scrutinize big technology companies.Apple doesn't have the same antitrust issues that rival companies such as Facebook and Google have, but Apple CEO Tim Cook testified alongside their CEOs in front of Congress last summer about antitrust topics. Cook later said he wanted to "unpeel" Apple from the investigation.The new passage reads as follows:"The Audit Committee and Board regularly review and discuss with management Apple's antitrust risks. Apple's Antitrust Compliance Officer is responsible for the development, review, and execution of Apple's Antitrust Compliance Program and regularly reports to the Audit Committee. These reports cover, among other matters, the alignment of the program with Apple's potential antitrust risks, and the effectiveness of the program's design in detecting and preventing antitrust issues and promoting compliance with laws and Apple policies."Last year's proxy report mentioned antitrust once in the context of evaluating new board members and did not say that Apple's audit committee oversees antitrust concerns. Apple is required to publish its proxy report ahead of its annual shareholders meeting.Apple's antitrust problems mostly relate to its control of the App Store, the only way to install software on an iPhone, which competitors and app makers say costs too much and limits competition.In October, the House Judiciary Subcommittee said in a report that Apple's "monopoly power" over iPhone apps gives it outsized profits. Last fall, Epic Games, makers of the popular game Fortnite, filed an antitrust lawsuit that is seeking to force Apple to allow third-party app stores on the iPhone. Apple also faces inquiries from international regulators, including the EU.The details about Apple's antitrust compliance program comes in the middle of an expanded section about which parts of Apple the audit committee oversees, including data security, business conduct and taxes. Apple's audit committee is composed of James Bell, Monica Lozano, Sue Wagner and Ron Sugar, its chair.An Apple representative declined to comment.Apple plans to hold a virtual shareholders meeting on Feb. 22. Shareholders are expected to reelect current board members and approve executive compensation.

2020/12/31, VIDEO4:5204:52Apple will lead tech again in 2021, says Gene MunsterSquawk BoxTech investor Gene Munster told CNBC on Thursday he sees a reasonable path for Apple to reach a $3 trillion market capitalization in the future.The iPhone maker became the first publicly traded U.S. company to reach a $2 trillion market cap in August — a milestone Munster foresaw in January, when he made the case for the stock to trade 50% higher. As of Thursday, with its stock around $133 per share, Apple was valued at almost $2.3 trillion.Munster, who covered Apple as a longtime analyst at investment bank Piper Jaffray, said on "Squawk Box" that he believes the California-based company can realistically reach $200 per share. That would put its market cap over $3 trillion."It needs to be anchored in earnings. That's the powerful piece about the Apple story," said Munster, who co-founded venture capital firm Loup Ventures. He said his prediction is based on Apple trading at a price-to-earnings ratio, or multiple, of 35 for 2022 earnings estimates."It's a year out there but I'm fast-forwarding the conversation to the middle and back half of next year, and we'll be talking about 2022 at that point. If the market can sustain these 35 multiples — you know, we're not talking about an Amazon-like multiple here — I think that that path is there," Munster said.Apple's current price-to-earnings ratio is almost 41, after the stock soared about 81% this year. Amazon, which has seen its stock rise about 76% this year, trades at roughly a 95 multiple.One catalyst that could help propel Apple higher is the larger adoption of remote work spurred on by the coronavirus pandemic, Munster said."This is generally thought of as a play on iPhone, a 5G play. That's good. That will impact the numbers in a positive way, but this acceleration of digital transformation, I think it's powerful," Munster said. "People working from anywhere are going to be arming up in the next 12 to 24 months, buying more Macs, iPads, services."Munster also repeated his belief that Apple's multiple could withstand further expansion as investors reconsider the company, which has in recent years pushed to generate more revenues from services to augment its sales of hardware.For his part, Munster said he thinks Apple could leverage its hardware business into a service, such as buying a Mac on a subscription. "We believe that that's coming, and more talk about autos is a big opportunity for Apple's multiple," Munster said, alluding to reports about Apple potentially making an electric car in a few years.More generally, he said he believes Apple will continue its strong stock performance in 2021, especially compared with its so-called FAANG brethren. In addition to Apple, the group of tech companies also includes Amazon, Facebook, Google-parent Alphabet and Netflix."We think that there will be a further fracturing of FAANG," Munster said, with Facebook and Netflix lagging Apple and Amazon. "I think for 2021, the performance is going to come again from Apple. It may seem tone deaf for a company to lead FAANG for three straight years, but I think that in fact will happen. I think this has a track to $200 [per share]."VIDEO1:5701:57Options traders place bearish bets on Apple sharesOptions Action

2021/03/26, In this articleTSLATWTRTesla CEO Elon Musk tweeted early Friday morning that "I think there is a >0% chance Tesla could be the biggest company" and added, "probably within a few months" in replies to followers.Musk's second tweet offering guidance on timing for an anticipated increase in Tesla's market cap has since been deleted, but screenshots were widely shared on Twitter.The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has clashed with Musk and Tesla over the CEO's unfettered use of Twitter before.In the third quarter of 2018, Musk faced securities fraud charges from the SEC after he tweeted to his tens of millions of followers then that he was planning to take Tesla private at $420 a share, and had secured funding to do so. Tesla's stock price jumped more than 6% that day.Musk and Tesla struck a settlement agreement, with the CEO individually and company each paying a $20 million fine, and agreeing they could not claim innocence, among other terms.However, the SEC asked the court to hold him in contempt for breaching that agreement after he tweeted about Tesla production numbers in early 2019. The agency said that was a violation of terms.As a term of their revised settlement agreement, Tesla is obligated to approve all written communications, including tweets and other social media posts, Musk intends to share that contain material information about the company. Tesla has never said publicly who holds the role known, in parlance, as Musk's "twitter sitter."More recently, a Tesla shareholder named Chase Gharrity filed a lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court over Musk's continued use of Twitter, saying he has cost shareholders billions of dollars in losses, for example, when he tweeted in May 2020 that Tesla's stock price was too high in his opinion. Tesla shares fell by 10% after that, representing more than a $13 billion decline in Tesla's market value.Musk has also commented on the price of cryptocurrency, including bitcoin, via tweets from his account, which currently boasts 49.7 million followers.Thursday, the National Labor Relations Board decided and ordered Tesla to direct Musk to remove past tweets that the federal agency deemed threatening to employees. The company and Musk have time to comply with the order but the offending material has not yet been removed from Twitter.The SEC declined to comment on Elon Musk's tweets, and Tesla did not respond to a request for comment.Correction: Musk only deleted the second tweet, which offered guidance on timing.

2020/12/23, VIDEO5:3405:34CNBC tech editor on the Apple-Facebook clash over personal dataClosing BellApple CEO Tim Cook gave a slap at the business practices of Big Tech rivals during an impassioned speech at a privacy conference in Brussels in October 2018."Every day, billions of dollars change hands, and countless decisions are made, on the basis of our likes and dislikes, our friends and families, our relationships and conversations. Our wishes and fears, our hopes and dreams," Cook said. "These scraps of data, each one harmless enough on its own, are carefully assembled, synthesized, traded and sold."Although Cook didn't call out Facebook by name, it was clear Mark Zuckerberg's company was one of the targets. Facebook built an empire by hoovering up the data of its users to inform its targeted ad system. Its revenue topped $20 billion last quarter, and nearly 99% of it comes from advertising.The speech was just one in a series of jabs Cook and Zuckerberg have taken at each other over nearly a decade. The tensions between Facebook and Apple date to the iPhone's infancy and the quest for control over the next wave of computing.In a 2014 cover story in Time, for example, Zuckerberg criticized Apple and Cook's stance on privacy:"A frustration I have is that a lot of people increasingly seem to equate an advertising business model with somehow being out of alignment with your customers," Zuckerberg said. "I think it's the most ridiculous concept. What, you think because you're paying Apple that you're somehow in alignment with them? If you were in alignment with them, then they'd make their products a lot cheaper."The war of words over the last decade highlights the fundamental difference in opinion between two giants over how business should be done on the internet.In Facebook's view, the internet is the Wild West, with a multitude of competing platforms offering innovative services for free. You may not pay for them with your money, but you pay by allowing your data to be tracked and packaged so advertisers can plop things you'd want to buy right in front of your face as you travel between devices and services.In Apple's view, the internet is just an extension of the personal computing revolution the company helped start in the 1980s, and your phone is the most personal device of all. You should know what companies are going to do with the information collected through that phone before you share it.A decadelong fightCEO of Facebook Mark Zuckerberg appears on a monitor behind a stenographer as he testifies remotely during the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee hearing 'Does Section 230's Sweeping Immunity Enable Big Tech Bad Behavior?', on Capitol Hill, October 28, 2020 in Washington, DC.Michael Reynolds | Pool | Getty ImagesThe war of words culminated last week with Facebook's two-day campaign against Apple. The ads called foul on an impending change to the iPhone's operating system designed to alert you when an app will track your personal data like location and browsing history, which companies like Facebook use to target their ads. The alert gives you the option to block the tracking before using the app.Facebook claimed that Apple's move is designed to crush small businesses that rely on that targeted advertising to reach their customers online. It also warned -- without evidence -- that Apple's move would force app makers to stop offering free, ad-supported apps to their customers. Instead, they would have to charge customers through digital subscriptions or other fees. Conveniently for Apple, it takes a cut of transactions conducted through its platform, including purchases or subscriptions that users make through apps they download on its App Store.Facebook painted a devious picture of Apple in the campaign: Here's a company with complete control over the rules of its platform, making a change designed to squeeze small businesses and force them into a paid model, of which Apple will take a cut. Facebook delivered that messaging in newspaper ads, blog posts, Instagram posts and a glitzy website featuring small business owners who use Facebook to advertise.Apple pushed back on Facebook's accusations. The company said the pop-up you'll see in apps is only designed to let you know when and how an app plans to track you, not ban tracking altogether. App makers like Facebook also have room in the pop-up and other screens to make their case to you for why you should allow tracking. Apps are still free to collect all the data on you that they were before, but you'll have to give them deliberate permission to do so. According to Apple, it's just the latest in a string of privacy-centric features it has added to products over the years.A mockup of the popup window iPhone users will see before using an app that tracks their data. This image was provided by Apple.AppleThe roots of the squabble stretch back more than a decade.In the iPhone's infancy, there was a great debate over what the mobile internet should look like. Would it look the internet on a desktop PC, where people mostly used a mobile web browser to visit websites, with everything built on openly published standards? Or would users switch between a collection of internet-connected software "apps," giving more control to the companies that owned the mobile platforms?Facebook, which was born on the open internet, favored the former option and pushed for rich web apps written to emerging standards. But it lost the fight in large part because of Apple, which pushed the app model as the default way of accomplishing tasks on the iPhone, then insisted that its own App Store would be the only legal and easy way to find and install those apps. (Google smartly played both sides, investing in the Android mobile platform and its own Google Play app store, as well as building out its Chrome web browser and exercising influence over web standards.)As the future became clear, Facebook made attempts to build its own smartphone so it wouldn't have to concede so much control to Apple or Google. The device never saw the light of day, and Facebook instead developed a software "skin" for Android devices that featured its own services. That was also a flop.Today, Facebook is laying the groundwork to own the next major computing platform so it doesn't have to play by another company's rules again. That's why it's currently developing products like digital glasses, which the company is expected to launch in 2021.In the meantime, Facebook has to deal with Apple.Facebook's end game is unclearIt's ironic that Facebook accused Apple of abusing its market power last week, just days after the FTC and a group of state attorneys general sued Facebook, alleging antitrust violations and recommending a breakup of the company.On top of that, Facebook's argument exposed its own hold on the digital ads market. Small businesses wouldn't have to rely so much on Facebook if Facebook had a viable competitor for these companies to advertise through.Apple faces similar government scrutiny, although there have been no formal antitrust lawsuits. In October, the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust released an epic report on the "monopoly power" of the four biggest tech giants, alleging Apple uses its control of the App Store to squash potential competitors.Both companies have rejected claims that their businesses violate antitrust laws. But Facebook has now created an environment where two giants facing antitrust scrutiny in the U.S. and around the world are trading barbs over which one is more guilty when it comes to abuse of market power.It's also hard to tell what Facebook's end game is here. Apple is not going to backtrack on a key privacy feature for the iPhone, and Facebook is not going to risk losing millions of users by yanking its apps off the App Store.Steve Satterfield, Facebook's director of privacy and public policy, told CNBC this week that the company will still comply with Apple's new rules, and there's no chance Facebook would flagrantly violate them to ignite a legal battle like the one Apple and "Fortnite" developer Epic Games are embroiled in now. (Facebook said last week it would support Epic in its lawsuit against Apple.)"Our goal is simple," Satterfield said. "We want Apple to start listening. They dropped this policy back in June with no meaningful consultation. ... Considering the far-reaching impact, it's important businesses can plan for it."It's also difficult to buy Facebook's stated argument against the pop-up. For years the company has argued that its users prefer the personalized and targeted ads that its data collection enables, as opposed to random ads served to a broad audience with no targeting. If that's true, then users should have no problem enabling the tracking when Apple shows them the pop-up.In August, Facebook undercut that argument when it released data from a study showing enough people would disable tracking to cause a 50% drop in revenue through its third-party ad networks. The company also warned investors this year that its own revenue would take a hit when Apple starts enforcing the tracking tool.Facebook said it would prefer to use its own privacy checkup tools to help users limit what data to share, instead of the notification Apple will show you.Apple said its customers want more privacy controls built into the iPhone. After years of criticizing the business practices of Facebook, the company has routinely added privacy features to tamp down on the abuses it's seen on its devices."Look at what we've done with the controls we've built in," Cook said in a 2018 interview with Axios when asked why companies like Google and Facebook are allowed to thrive on the iPhone despite his criticism of their practices. "We have private web browsing. We have an intelligent tracker prevention. What we've tried to do is come up with ways to help our users through their course of the day."It wasn't just Apple pushing back against Facebook's arguments. Groups of small business advertisers, the same ones Facebook said it was trying to protect, took over Facebook's #SpeakUpForSmall hashtag on Twitter and filled it with complaints about the lack of attention they get compared with Facebook's larger ad clients the day the campaign launched.And Bloomberg published a report earlier this week full of similar complaints from advertisers over the company's automated ad buying tools. BuzzFeed published a story Tuesday citing Facebook employees who were just as confused over the anti-Apple crusade as the small business advertisers.For its part, Facebook spokeswoman Ashley Zandy told CNBC the company has heard from many supportive companies and that it allows its employees to speak freely and question company strategy."I think we've seen a lot of balanced and nuanced coverage of the announcement," Satterfield said. "I think we're pleased."

2021/02/04, SINGAPORE — Shares in major Asia-Pacific markets slipped on Thursday, with South Korea leading the losses.The Kospi in South Korea declined 1.35% to close at 3,087.55.Mainland Chinese stocks also closed lower, with the Shanghai composite down 0.44% to 3.501.86 while the Shenzhen component slid 0.835% to 15,105.94. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index dipped about 0.6%, as of its final hour of trading.In Japan, the Nikkei 225 shed 1.06% to close at 28,341.95 while the Topix index slipped 0.32% to end its trading day at 1,865.12.Stocks in Australia slipped too, and the S&P/ASX 200 fell 0.87% on the day to close at 6,765.50. Australia's exports of goods and services in December rose 3% month-on-month on a seasonally adjusted basis, the country's Bureau of Statistics announced Thursday.MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares declined 0.65%.Apple closing in on deal with Hyundai-KiaShares of South Korean automakers Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors rose 1.22% and 0.41%, respectively, on Thursday. The moves came after sources told CNBC that Apple is close to finalizing a deal with Hyundai-Kia to manufacture an Apple-branded autonomous electric vehicle at the Kia assembly plant in West Point, Georgia.On Wednesday, shares of Kia surged following a local media report that the carmaker is set to sign a 4 trillion won (about $3.59 billion) deal with Apple to build electric vehicles, according to Reuters.Overnight stateside, the S&P 500 rose 0.1% to close at 3,830.17. The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 36.12 points to end its trading day at 30,723.60 while the Nasdaq Composite dipped slightly to close at 13,610.54.Currencies and oilThe U.S. dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of its peers, was at 91.319 after rising from levels below 90.8 earlier this week.The Japanese yen traded at 105.22 per dollar after hovering largely around the 105 level against the greenback yesterday. The Australian dollar changed hands at $0.7626, still off levels above $0.768 seen last week.Oil prices rose in the afternoon of Asia trading hours, with international benchmark Brent crude futures up 0.86% to $58.96 per barrel. U.S. crude futures gained 0.9% to $56.19 per barrel.— With reporting from CNBC's Phil LeBeau and Meghan Reeder.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/12/28, Tim Cook at Apple EventSource: AppleA closely watched Apple analyst is warning that investors should be cautious about a report that the iPhone maker is planning to produce a self-driving car in 2024.Last week's report by Reuters sent shares of companies that build parts for autonomous cars, like lidar sensors, soaring. But the hype was purely on speculation some of those companies might supply parts for the Apple car, TFI analyst Ming-Chi Kuo warned in a note this weekend.Kuo has built a reputation for accurately revealing Apple's product launch plans, and he closely follows Apple's supply chain."We believe that the current so-called Apple car concept stocks are only speculations by the market and do not involve actual Apple car suppliers," Kuo said. "We also think that because EV/self-driving car technical specs are still evolving, it is too early to talk about the final specs of the Apple car."Kuo said the market is "too bullish" on the Apple car and he wouldn't be surprised if the Apple car doesn't launch until 2028 or later. The earliest he thinks it could hit the market is 2025. Kuo also suggested that Apple may be too far behind in artificial intelligence to launch a competitive self-driving car."If Apple car wants to succeed in the future, the key success factor is big data/AI, not hardware," he said. "One of our biggest concerns about Apple Research 27 December 2020 2 Apple car is that when Apple car is launched, the current self-driving car brands will have accumulated at least five years of big data and be conducive to deep learning/AI. How does Apple, a latecomer, overcome this lagging gap?"Apple has kept its grand vision for autos relatively quiet. But the company has been testing self-driving technology for a few years now, and CEO Tim Cook has said he views the technology as a way to beef up Apple's AI systems.Other analysts have been just as skeptical as Kuo."Apple conducts R&D in many areas, and while we are not surprised to hear the media once again discuss Project Titan for autos, we are very skeptical that Apple will actually produce a car, as auto sector profitability is much lower," Citi analyst Jim Suva wrote in a note last week.VIDEO2:5102:51Apple reportedly targets self-driving electric car production in 2024AutosSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/01/06, A customer exits after picking up Apple's new 5G iPhone 12 that went on sale, as the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak continues, at an Apple Store in Brooklyn, New York, October 23, 2020.Brendan McDermid | ReutersApple's App Store customers spent a record $540 million on New Year's Day alone, marking a 40% increase from last year, the company said Wednesday in its annual services report.On top of that, Apple announced it generated $1.8 billion in App Store sales of digital goods and services in the week between Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve and now has 90 million monthly active users for its Apple Books app.But the report didn't provide updates on subscribers for its suite of newer subscription products such as Apple TV+, its video streaming service; Apple Music and Apple Fitness+, which is a Peloton competitor. In the fall, Apple began bundling many of its subscription services together as part of its Apple One program. The services category is a key growth area Apple has focused on in recent years as hardware sales growth has fallen.Apple's App Store update also comes as tensions continue to rise over Apple's control over its App Store policies. Several app developers, most notably Facebook and Fortnite maker Epic Games, have publicly criticized Apple for taking a 30% cut of App Store sales from developers and for enforcing a new policy designed to disclose which apps track your data for targeted advertising. Apple recently altered its policies to take a 15% cut from companies that generate less than $1 million in App Store sales, which the company said was a move to help small businesses.Overall, Apple's services generated revenue of $53.8 billion in the company's last fiscal year, which ended in September 2021. Apple is expected to report its fiscal first-quarter earnings in a few weeks.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO1:2201:22Here's a break down of 2021's most anticipated public offeringsSquawk Box

2020/12/21, In this articleAAPLTim Cook presents at the Apple launch event in Cupertino, Calif on Sept. 10th, 2019.Source: AppleApple is moving forward with self-driving car technology and is targeting 2024 to produce a passenger vehicle that could include its own breakthrough battery technology, people familiar with the matter told Reuters.The iPhone maker's automotive efforts, known as Project Titan, have proceeded unevenly since 2014 when it first started to design its own vehicle from scratch. At one point, Apple drew back the effort to focus on software and reassessed its goals. Doug Field, an Apple veteran who had worked at Tesla, returned to oversee the project in 2018 and laid off 190 people from the team in 2019.Since then, Apple has progressed enough that it now aims to build a vehicle for consumers, two people familiar with the effort said, asking not to be named because Apple's plans are not public. Apple's goal of building a personal vehicle for the mass market contrasts with rivals such as Alphabet's Waymo, which has built robo-taxis to carry passengers for a driverless ride-hailing service.Central to Apple's strategy is a new battery design that could "radically" reduce the cost of batteries and increase the vehicle's range, according to a third person who has seen Apple's battery design.Apple declined to comment on its plans or future products.Making a vehicle represents a supply chain challenge even for Apple, a company with deep pockets that makes hundreds of millions of electronics products each year with parts from around the world, but has never made a car. It took Elon Musk's Tesla 17 years before it finally turned a sustained profit making cars."If there is one company on the planet that has the resources to do that, it's probably Apple. But at the same time, it's not a cellphone," said a person who worked on Project Titan.It remains unclear who would assemble an Apple-branded car, but sources have said they expect the company to rely on a manufacturing partner to build vehicles. And there is still a chance Apple will decide to reduce the scope of its efforts to an autonomous driving system that would be integrated with a car made by a traditional automaker, rather than the iPhone maker selling an Apple-branded car, one of the people added.Two people with knowledge of Apple's plans warned pandemic-related delays could push the start of production into 2025 or beyond.Apple has decided to tap outside partners for elements of the system, including lidar sensors, which help self-driving cars get a three-dimensional view of the road, two people familiar with the company's plans said.Apple's car might feature multiple lidar sensors for scanning different distances, another person said. Some sensors could be derived from Apple's internally developed lidar units, that person said. Apple's iPhone 12 Pro and iPad Pro models released this year both feature lidar sensors.Reuters had previously reported that Apple had held talks with potential lidar suppliers, but it was also examining building its own sensor.As for the car's battery, Apple plans to use a unique "monocell" design that bulks up the individual cells in the battery and frees up space inside the battery pack by eliminating pouches and modules that hold battery materials, one of the people said.Apple's design means that more active material can be packed inside the battery, giving the car a potentially longer range. Apple is also examining a chemistry for the battery called LFP, or lithium iron phosphate, the person said, which is inherently less likely to overheat and is thus safer than other types of lithium-ion batteries."It's next level," the person said of Apple's battery technology. "Like the first time you saw the iPhone."Apple had previously engaged Magna in talks about manufacturing a car, but the talks petered out as Apple's plans became unclear, a person familiar with those previous efforts said. Magna did not immediately respond to a request for comment.To turn a profit, automotive contract manufacturers often ask for volumes that could pose a challenge even to Apple, which would be a newcomer to the automotive market."In order to have a viable assembly plant, you need 100,000 vehicles annually, with more volume to come," the person said.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO0:4800:48Uber selling self-driving unit to Silicon Valley start-up AuroraClosing Bell

2020/12/15, A monorail train displaying Google signage moves past a billboard advertising Apple iPhone security during the 2019 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S., on Monday, Jan. 7, 2019.Bloomberg | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple is making a huge change to settings on users' iPhones in the name of privacy, and it will fundamentally change the way apps track your data in order to create targeted ads.But many in the mobile ad ecosystem have said that Apple hasn't given them clear guidance or communication along the way as they retool their apps to comply with the new rules related to the tracking systems known as Identifier for Advertisers (IDFA).Some have lambasted the change, saying it will hurt the ecosystem's small, independent players. And even if certain players violate Apple's guidelines, it's unclear how that behavior would even be discovered, or whether they'd be kicked out of the App Store for violating the rules.VIDEO5:0105:01Facebook vs. Apple ad battle is a PR battle: Kindred Ventures' JangSquawk AlleyApple's change, which was supposed to launch earlier this fall but was delayed to give app makers more time to retool their advertising systems to comply, will take a privacy option that was previously buried deep in users' phones and put it front and center when they open an app.With the change, iPhone users will see a pop-up window in each app. The pop-up warns users that an app is tracking their data for advertising purposes, and gives them the option to block the app from doing so. For Facebook, for example, it would read, "Facebook would like permission to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies," with an option to allow tracking or ask the app not to track. App owners also have a bit of language they can tailor themselves, but they only have a limited area to do so. The fear among app makers is that many users will turn off the ad tracking capabilities of an app when they see the pop-up warning and blow up their business model of letting advertisers effectively target and measure ads and their effectiveness on the iPhone. Facebook already warned in August that the change could shave off 50% of Audience Network revenue for publishersThe response to Apple's change has been messy at best. A recently released survey from marketing trade organization MMA Global and mobile attribution company AppsFlyer found that 37% of respondents, made up of the trade group's membership base, claimed to have little or no understanding of the IDFA rules.  When Apple announced the new IDFA rules in June, app makers who rely on targeted mobile ads started scrambling to figure out what was going on.Apple "dumped 10,000 puzzle pieces on the floor and walked away" after first announcing the change, says Eric Seufert, an analyst and owner of website Mobile Dev Memo. "After some of that time, some of them have been combined, so the picture is a little clearer."But he said Apple was still slow at first about any kinds of clarifications. VIDEO2:3002:30Citi Apple analyst gives five reasons why he thinks the stock can head higherPower Lunch"In the absence of clarity and instruction from Apple, the ad tech industry just ran away with these insane fantasies about how they were going to be able to sidestep this," Seufert said. He said many companies didn't make any progress in the course of months where they didn't have clear enough direction. Apple did issue a number of clarifications this fall about what would not be allowed. Apple declined to comment on its communication with the industry or on other specific questions about the guidelines and how they should be interpreted. After a slew of complaints, Apple ultimately decided to delay enforcement of the changes, which were supposed to go into effect with the release of iOS 14 in September. The rules will now go into effect early next year, giving industry players more time to make their apps and methods compliant.The fact that users will need to opt in to sharing their IDFA to have apps track them will likely mean low opt-in rates. As a result, advertisers would have much less of that definitive data to work with.That's led some in the industry to ponder whether players could use other methods to determine the identity of users or their devices to target that advertising or link behavior like a download to advertising. But Apple has indicated some of those methods won't comply with the rules.And if tech players do track without permission, that means bad news for the apps they work with. Apple's senior vice president of software engineering Craig Federighi said last week that starting in 2021, Apple will remove apps from its App Store that track users in ways that could be shared with other companies without receiving permission from the user.The changes may still be full of intricacies and question marks, but with such severe consequences, some are erring far on the side of caution. Mike Brooks, SVP of revenue at WeatherBug, wrote recently about how much responsibility app publishers have in the post-IDFA world. He said publishers bear the entire risk of iOS 14 violations, with severe punishments like App Store removal on the table.Craig Federighi, Senior Vice President of Software Engineering for Apple, discusses the Siri desktop assistant for MacOS Sierra at the company's Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco, June 13, 2016.Stephen Lam | ReutersApple's big privacy changeMany in the ad industry had expected an IDFA change as tech companies have recently focused on privacy as a feature of their products. Nevertheless, when it was announced at Apple's WWDC event in June, the industry started assembling their Plan B's. For one, industry players said they expect an abysmal rate of people opting in to share their IDFA when prompted to do so by an app."When you look at how Apple is actually implementing the popups with iOS 14, you'd have to be insane to opt into advertising personalization and tracking," said Ana Milicevic, principal and co-founder of management consultancy Sparrow Advisers.Companies have been trying to figure out how to communicate with users before that prompt to show users how valuable opting in is for the company. But there are some methods Apple won't allow. The company has said developers can't try to incentivize users to agree to allow tracking, and they also can't say the app is functional only if they agree. And if opt-in rates are indeed small, companies that make money through apps won't be able to use that data in more granular ways. Apple has its own solution for digital advertisers who feel like they're out of options. The company recently revamped its "SKAdNetwork," which will be available for advertisers through Apple. But it won't provide data that's as granular as what they've received before, and as it stands many advertisers aren't keen on what it can offer. "Apple has almost withdrawn its support to third-party ad monetization without offering a solid replacement to publishers and marketers," Sergio Serra, a product manager at mobile adtech company InMobi, said in an email to CNBC. "While SKAdNetwork is a good attempt to mitigate the issue, it cannot be a scalable response as it lacks many important aspects."Facebook, for instance, said in August that in testing it saw more than a 50% drop in publisher revenue through its Audience Network, which allows mobile software developers to provide in-app ads targeted on Facebook data, when personalization was removed from mobile app ad install campaigns. Facebook has also accused Apple with its iOS changes of moving the free, ad-supported internet into paid apps and services, where Apple can take its 30% cut, and crushing small businesses' ability to do personalized advertising.The broader marketing industry has also pushed back. A global group of marketing leaders wrote a letter this summer to the company about their concerns, including competitive issues posed by the change, as well as asking for the company to work in collaboration with the industry to come up with standards.Another group, the Partnership for Responsible Addressable Media that combines a number of top ad trade groups, asked Apple in its own letter for a meeting to address the changes and answer questions. The group had a preliminary meeting with Apple, but industry parties were still hoping for more commitments from the company, Travis Clinger, SVP of addressability and ecosystem at LiveRamp, which is a member of the Partnership, said last week.One major theme for the ad industry is the potential impact on companies that offer free apps supported by advertising. Though consumers may be annoyed by ads, would they be willing to shell out money to use every app they use? And if not, will those apps survive?Apple's Federighi responded to "outlandish" claims in last week's speech, saying that companies were making false arguments to maintain the "privacy-invasive status quo." It all comes alongside a broader march toward more consumer privacy. Google is making a huge change of removing support for third-party cookies in its Chrome browser, which are used to track users across multiple sites to target ads and see how they perform. Some in the industry also expect Google to follow Apple with its own mobile advertising identifier on Android devices next year. Google declined to comment on the potential of changes to that identifier. How the industry is adaptingThe change leaves app developers and the companies that help those developers make money through ads to figure out how to pivot or risk the future of their business. Several industry players told CNBC they have hoped for more clarity from Apple, while some have turned to industry Slack groups to piece together answers by communicating with competitors. Some methods clearly won't fly. When Apple first announced the change at its WWDC event in June, it suggested that it would limit fingerprinting, a method that can be used to track users and target ads to them as they browse the internet and use apps."But then they let these ad tech companies tell their clients, 'We're going to be able to fingerprint,' and spread that message," Seufert said. "It muddied people's understanding of what was going to be allowed."Seufert said he believes most companies today understand fingerprinting won't be allowed. Certain methods that use signals from a consumer's phone to measure or analyze but aren't strictly referred to as fingerprinting can get into a grayer area. Apple says in its policies that companies can't derive data from a device for the purpose of uniquely identifying it. Some in the ad industry see any potential workaround that could still identify a device as a potential violation of Apple's new policies.But some players say they are still trying to identify devices with methods that are privacy-conscious enough or anonymous enough to follow the guidelines. Some industry players say their methods will comply with Apple guidelines because they are only using that data for their clients and aren't selling that data or using it for other purposes, or because they're using algorithms to examine broader campaigns and not specific users.It's still unclear how Apple will police those methods, leaving the window open for companies attempting any kind of workaround to face consequences or pushback from Apple.InMobi's Serra said while Apple wants to regulate and enforce new policies, it can basically only control what happens on the platform, like the IDFA. But when it comes to information like IP or carrier-level data, that may go beyond their jurisdiction. "Since they realize they cannot enforce directly such practices, a psychological Reign of Terror is starting to materialize within the ecosystem," Serra said. He added that advertising platforms are afraid of going against Apple's wishes for fear of being banned by the App Store or Apple's own SKADNetwork program.  Data company LiveRamp is using a different method, what it calls its "Authenticated Traffic Solution," which it says involves consumers opting in to gain control of their data, and on the other side, brands and publishers being able to use that data. That solution can use encrypted emails or phone numbers that allow publishers to connect their own first-party data.Apple says if someone has not opted into tracking, a hidden email address or phone number can't be used to track that user. But LiveRamp says its solution doesn't use device data or let any data to be mapped from the device to a consumer "identity."Some players in the ecosystem are looking at new ways of forging ahead amid the change. WeatherBug's Brooks said his company is looking to the future, investing in areas like direct sales, ways of leveraging first-party data and contextual advertising.Some companies are looking to invest more heavily in that area of contextual targeting, which is advertiser speak for targeting on the environment a user is in, and not the user themselves. That would mean trying to determine whether the audience of one app would generally be interested in downloading another. If a company could determine that users of one game would be likely to download a dating app, they could focus investing that way. Some players are looking to target on factors like a user's battery level or whether they have a strong network connection. Those do use information on an individual's device, but purport this wouldn't attempt to connect the identity of that user specifically to target.The enforcement of the IDFA changes is likely an existential moment for businesses in the space. Some companies may go away completely if they can't figure out how to move forward in a way that aligns with the way privacy standards are heading. And it won't be easy, when so many companies in the space have been built on advertising standards of yore."It's kind of like I'm renovating this house and the foundation is rotten and probably needs to be replaced, but I don't have the time for that or the money for that," Milicevic said. "So I invest in new cabinets and track lights and hope for the best. And then the foundation crumbles and you don't have a house anymore."VIDEO4:2404:24How Apple's stand on privacy will affect the company down the lineSquawk Box

2020/12/22, In this articleFBAAPLVIDEO4:5704:57Jim Cramer reviews 'dream market' of start-ups targeting the alternative fuel food chainMad Money with Jim CramerCNBC's Jim Cramer on Tuesday reacted to rumors that Apple could be laying day a path to get into the car business, saying Apple stock should be owned simply for its existing catalog of technology products."An electric vehicle merely gives you one more reason to own Apple, not trade it," the "Mad Money" host said. "Hopefully, everyone will forget this story tomorrow and the stock will sell off, giving you another chance to buy into weakness."On Monday, Reuters published an article reporting that the iPhone manufacturer could build a car, potentially with its own battery technology, by 2024. Investors responded the day after trading the stock up almost 3% to a $131.88 close, giving it a more than $2.25 trillion market cap, the largest valuation on the market.The comments came after a mixed day of trading on Wall Street with the Dow Jones index dropping about 200 points, or 0.7%, to 30,015.51. The S&P 500 fell for the third day in a row, slipping 0.2% to a 3,687.26 close. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite climbed 0.5% to a record 12,807.92 close.While the company has yet to comment on the speculation, Cramer highlighted that the company committed $18 billion on research and development, saying that an electric vehicle could be on the company's wish list."We know Apple likes to disrupt big end markets [and] it doesn't get any bigger than the auto industry," Cramer said. "If there's anyone who can give Tesla a run for the money, it's Tim Cook and his team at Apple."In an alternative world, Tesla just may have combined forces with Apple, according to the head of the electric car manufacturer. CEO Eon Musk late Tuesday said in a tweet that he reached out to Apple CEO Tim Cook during the "darkest days of the Model 3 program" with the intention to sell the company "for 1/10 of our current value." He said Cook declined the meeting. Now valued at nearly $597 billion, Tesla could have sold for $59.7 billion, based on Musk's statement.Cramer advised investors against valuing Apple like the high-flying stock of Tesla, which sports a 665% gain this year. Tesla shares fell 1.5% on Tuesday, ending the session at $640.34.Cramer likened Apple to a consumer packaged goods company, suggesting that investors judge the company on the lifetime value of its customer base. Apple, which is relying more on its growing subscription business and the App Store, should be judged more like a Colgate or Procter & Gamble, he added."Imagine if there was a catalyst beyond the subscription revenue stream," Cramer said. "If Apple's really working on an electric car … the upside could be enormous."VIDEO12:1012:10Jim Cramer reacts to Apple car rumors: 'The upside could be enormous'Mad Money with Jim CramerDisclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Apple.DisclaimerQuestions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2020/12/14, In this articleAAPLVIDEO7:1407:14Apple unveils Fitness+, a new service for the Apple WatchTechApple's subscription fitness app, Fitness+, launches Monday. I've been using it for the past several days and I think it offers a nice variety of workouts that people will like. You need an Apple Watch to take the prerecorded exercise classes, which are available on iPhones, iPads and the Apple TV.It's a smart way for Apple to make the Apple Watch even stickier. If people get really into the fitness classes, like I have, it will be yet another way Apple keeps people locked in to its ecosystem of products. Why buy another phone, tablet or watch if you really like Fitness+? It also comes at a great time, when people aren't in gyms and are at home looking for ways to exercise.Like other fitness apps, including Peloton's, which starts at $12.99 a month for classes that don't need the company's connected spin bike, you don't need anything to use it. But, you'll get more out of it if you have any indoor cycle, treadmill, rowing machine or free weights, since some of the classes require equipment. But you don't need anything special. I've been riding a hand-me-down exercise bike, for example.VIDEO2:4002:40First look: Apple's AirPods Max provide great sound and style for a hefty priceTechFitness+ costs $9.99 a month or $79.99 a year. It's also part of the Premier Apple One plan, which costs $29.95 per month, and includes other Apple products like Apple Music, Apple TV+ and extra iCloud storage bundled together at a discount.Here's what Apple Fitness+ is like.What I likeApple Fitness+AppleI started taking my health a lot more seriously a few months ago and have cut a bunch of weight. A great deal of that was through diet, but I've also been addicted to Peloton's iPad app, which I use on a regular indoor bike and not a real Peloton and that, like Fitness+, has a variety of noncycling workouts.The Peloton instructors are really encouraging. (Shout out to Alex Toussaint, Emma Lovewell and Kendall Toole.) So, I was worried that I wouldn't find that kind of coaching in Fitness+. If the coaches weren't good, I'd go back to Peloton.But, after I took about eight cycling classes on Fitness+, I started to get used to and enjoy the different Apple Fitness+ instructors. My favorites so far are the cycling instructors Emily Fayette, Bakari Williams and Tyrell Desean, but I haven't taken a class with all the 21 instructors for a variety of workouts yet. There are a lot to choose from with classes like high-intensity interval training (HIIT), spin, yoga, treadmill, rowing, strength and dance.I love that Fitness+ syncs seamlessly with the Apple Watch. You just pick the workout you want and then hit start. Your heart rate, the time elapsed (or time left if you want) and your Apple Watch Fitness rings (red for calories, green for exercise minutes and blue for standing minutes) appear on the screen and close as you continue to work out. Any Apple Watch owner knows how addictive it can be to try to close all of your rings every day, and I like that the app puts this right on the screen to encourage me to close mine.You can stream workouts to your iPad, iPhone or Apple TV, or download them for when you don't have an internet connection. I preferred cycling with an iPad, but liked that I could come upstairs and do a cooldown or a quick yoga class while watching on the Apple TV. Also, as long as you own an Apple Watch and subscribe to Fitness+, you can workout on any Apple TV with Fitness+ installed. So, if you're staying in a hotel that has one, or more likely an Airbnb, it'll see your watch nearby and let you take classes even if the owner of the Apple TV doesn't pay for Fitness+. This will be fun when we can all travel again.It's also easy to find classes on the Apple TV, iPad or iPhone. The app recommends classes based on your previous workouts (including in any app that saves data to Apple Health, like Peloton). You can filter by time (10 minutes up to 45 minutes), by instructor, by exercise or by type of music. And, I like that you can automatically save music or play it back inside the Apple Music app. You don't need to be a subscriber to Apple Music to hear songs in Fitness+, however.Apple Fitness+AppleThe workouts are great. The 45-minute bike rides definitely left me sweaty and showed that I burned about 450 to 500 calories, about what I get in the same time from the Peloton app. I'm not a huge yoga guy, but I liked the 10-minute intro class and plan to try to take some of the longer ones. I really need to work on my flexibility. A 10-minute strength class I snuck in after a bike ride really worked out my thighs. There's plenty to choose from already and more classes will be added each Monday. You'll find enough to do.Finally, and maybe the most important part, is Apple Fitness does a great job of encouraging all fitness levels. There are additional instructors during each workout showing recommended tweaks or changes you might make if you're not in perfect shape like the trainers. In the cycling workouts, I was encouraged to push myself but not to set a specific level of resistance or cadence, which I liked better than on Peloton where I first felt like I wasn't working out as hard if I couldn't maintain the harder resistance levels. And speaking of inclusion, the classes all start and end with a bit of sign language for people who are hard of hearing. Nice touch.What I'd like to seeApple Fitness+AppleThere are a couple of things I still prefer from the Peloton app. Apple's Fitness+ instructors are great, but I want to learn more about them and their individual personalities.I like that Peloton instructor Toussaint serves as a sort of drill sergeant-style instructor. No excuses for not doing your best. This extends even into the music. You'll hear explicit language in Peloton. (Even the instructors curse occasionally.) You don't get that in Fitness+. Maybe it's weird, but I just don't get as amped working to a hip-hop playlist with the curse words missing.And I like that Peloton instructors chat more about their lives and experiences. Peloton's Lovewell talks about being raised on Martha's Vineyard. Massachusetts. Her dad was a musician. She talks about her favorite new tunes with custom workout playlists. About how she's restoring a new home. I don't yet know a whole lot about Fitness+ instructors, aside from small profiles posted online, but I'm told that should start to come through more and I'm looking forward to more of that.Peloton also offers live classes while Fitness+ does not. And if you don't take the live class, Peloton still shows you who's taking the prerecorded class with you at the same time, which I like. Fitness+ lets you compete with everyone else who's taken a class through "burn bar" that appears on the screen and tells you where you stand in the pack. It's fun in cycling classes, but I wish there were more social features that showed me who else was riding in real time, or how my friends did in a specific class. It doesn't show any user names (that's by design as a privacy feature) and instructors don't shout out encouragements for hitting milestones like a 100th ride or workout. I just love the community feel in Peloton and themed classes like the holiday and Thanksgiving rides where instructors might even dress up or play holiday music. I hope that comes to Fitness+ too.Also, while the Apple Watch has a bunch of digital badges and awards you can win for workout streaks, I wish there were some dedicated to Fitness+. So, maybe I'd get badges for working out with Fitness+ in a week. Or a badge for doing specific holiday workouts if and when those ever appear.Finally, it's obvious, but you need Apple devices to use Fitness+. It doesn't run on Android or TV boxes like Roku, and you have to have an Apple Watch. So, Peloton is the way to go if you want an app that runs on different kinds of TV boxes, tablets, phones and fitness trackers.Apple Fitness+ final thoughtsApple Fitness+AppleFitness+ is excellent. Should you pick it over Peloton? Tough call.This is the part of a review is where I'd normally say if you should buy something or not, but both Fitness+ and the Peloton app come with free one-month trials. And anyone who bought a new Apple Watch this year gets a three-month trial. So, really, you should try both and see which one you like better. I'm pretty torn right now.I love how well Fitness+ syncs and works across devices, how well it works with the Apple Watch and that it's really inviting for all fitness levels. You'll end Peloton and Fitness+ classes feeling sweaty and happy.Considering I used to pay more than $150 a month for a gym before the coronavirus pandemic, I'm probably just going to keep using both apps. Apple Fitness+ is included in the Premier family plan I already pay for, and I like being able to switch up instructors and workout styles between the apps.The way I see it, I'm just getting even more classes if I subscribe to both. Plus, this way I'm not quitting on the Peloton instructors I love so much, or missing the fun special classes and workout streaks, and I can continue getting in shape while continuing to explore Fitness+.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. VIDEO13:4113:41How Apple gets you to spend moneyHooked

2021/01/19, A woman exercises at home with the help of an online course.Thomas Trutschel/Photothek via Getty ImagesThe fitness industry was turned on its head in 2020.As the Covid pandemic entered the U.S. in March, Americans quickly realized their gym routines were no longer going to be sustainable. Fitness studios ranging from New York Sports Clubs to SoulCycle held their final group classes, as they were forced to shut down to try to curb the spread of the coronavirus. And their users were forced to search for alternative ways to break a sweat in their basements or bedrooms, to try to alleviate Covid-related anxieties.Sales of health and fitness equipment more than doubled, to $2.3 billion, during the span of March to October, according to data from The NPD Group. Treadmill sales skyrocketed a whopping 135%, the group said, while sales of stationary bikes almost tripled. Retailers from Target to Dick's Sporting Goods could hardly keep items like 10-pound weights and jump ropes on their shelves.Now, companies from Peloton to Lululemon to Apple are betting that the Covid pandemic has permanently changed how people will exercise at home. And, so far, the numbers seem to back up their bets.

2021/01/11, In this articleAMZNA general view of the the Parler app icon displayed on an iPhone on January 9, 2021 in London, England.Hollie Adams | Getty Images News | Getty ImagesParler, a social media app popular with conservatives and supporters of President Donald Trump, has gone offline after Amazon withdrew its support in the wake of the deadly U.S. Capitol riot last week.The app was reliant on cloud computing power provided by Amazon Web Services.AWS told Parler on Saturday that it will no longer provide cloud services to the company beginning on Sunday at 11:59 p.m. PT, according to an email obtained by CNBC. An Amazon spokesperson confirmed the authenticity of the letter to CNBC. John Matze, the founder and CEO, said in a statement on Monday that the Parler app will be down "longer than expected" because other cloud hosting companies do not want to work with Parler in light of the press statements issued by Amazon, Google and Apple."We will likely be down longer than expected," wrote Matze. "This is not due to software restrictions — we have our software and everyone's data ready to go. Rather it's that Amazon's, Google's and Apple's statements to the press about dropping our access has caused most of our other vendors to drop their support for us as well."He added: "Most people with enough servers to host us have shut their doors to us. We will update everyone and update the press when we are back online."AWS told Parler in the email that it had flagged 98 examples to Parler of posts that "clearly encourage and incite violence." Among the posts it reported to Parler, which were viewed by CNBC, users on the platform made violent threats directed at "liberal leaders, liberal activists #blm leaders and supporters," in addition to other groups.Screenshots of the Parler app viewed by CNBC show users posting references to firing squads, as well as calls to bring weapons to the presidential inauguration later this month.Matze condemned the tech giants' moves in a series of posts on Parler over the weekend, claiming that his platform had removed its violent content and adding that its community guidelines don't allow Parler to be knowingly used for criminal activity. "We are the worlds [sic] last hope for free speech and free information. What they are doing is unprecedented, unfounded and absolutely disgusting," Matze wrote late Saturday night. "They want to keep their monopoly over speech."In response to this, an AWS spokesperson told CNBC that AWS provides services to customers across the political spectrum, and confirmed that the suspension took place over content that the company says clearly encouraged violence."We respect Parler's right to determine for itself what content it will allow," said an AWS spokesperson. "However, it is clear that there is significant content on Parler that encourages and incites violence against others, and that Parler is unable or unwilling to promptly identify and remove this content, which is a violation of our terms of service." They added: "We made our concerns known to Parler over a number of weeks and during that time we saw a significant increase in this type of dangerous content, not a decrease, which led to our suspension of their services Sunday evening." Apple removed Parler from the iPhone App Store on Saturday. The company said that posts on Parler related to the U.S. Capitol riot last week included calls for violence, which violates Apple's rules against objectionable content."We have always supported diverse points of view being represented on the App Store, but there is no place on our platform for threats of violence and illegal activity," an Apple representative said in a statement. "Parler has not taken adequate measures to address the proliferation of these threats to people's safety. We have suspended Parler from the App Store until they resolve these issues."Google removed Parler from its Android app store, Google Play, on Friday."In order to protect user safety on Google Play, our longstanding policies require that apps displaying user-generated content have moderation policies and enforcement that removes egregious content like posts that incite violence," said a Google spokesperson."All developers agree to these terms and we have reminded Parler of this clear policy in recent months. We're aware of continued posting in the Parler app that seeks to incite ongoing violence in the U.S. We recognize that there can be reasonable debate about content policies and that it can be difficult for apps to immediately remove all violative content, but for us to distribute an app through Google Play, we do require that apps implement robust moderation for egregious content. In light of this ongoing and urgent public safety threat, we are suspending the app's listings from the Play Store until it addresses these issues."The news follows Twitter's permanent suspension of Trump's Twitter account, which had 88 million followers, over what it said was the president's incitement of violence linked to the storming of the Capitol Building, which lead to five deaths. Trump later condemned the violence. Trump has also been banned from Facebook and Instagram.Gab, a similar social network to Parler known for its far-right userbase and a frequent host of hate speech, appears to be benefiting from the fallout. On Monday, Gab CEO Andrew Torba announced that the platform had gained 600,000 new users.— Additional reporting by CNBC's Annie Palmer and Natasha Turak.

2021/01/05, Apple CEO Tim Cook delivers a keynote during the European Union's privacy conference at the EU Parliament in Brussels, Belgium October 24, 2018.Yves Herman | ReutersAs the industry prepares for Apple's change to settings on users' iPhones in the name of privacy, MKM Partners analysts said Tuesday some online ad companies such as Facebook and Snap will be more exposed to the impacts on mobile advertising than their peers. Apple's change will take a privacy option for users to share their advertising ID, or "IDFA," that was previously buried deep in users' phones and put it front and center when they open an app. Before using an app such as Facebook that tracks your data for targeted advertising, you'll be asked to enable the tracking. Companies such as Facebook fear Apple's notice will discourage people from enabling tracking, therefore limiting their ability to target ads, the core of their businesses.Players in the industry currently use that ID, when it's available, to target ads and measure how effective they are. But the change is expected to dramatically impact the ability of advertisers to target ads the way they have been since people likely won't opt in.A mockup of the popup window iPhone users will see before using an app that tracks their data. This image was provided by Apple.AppleMKM analysts said they created a framework based on seven factors to determine the change's risk to online ad companies. The factors include scale, access to first-party data, exposure to iOS devices, relative revenue contribution from app install ads, off-platform ads, ads purchased by small businesses and ads purchased by industries relying heavily on paid mobile user acquisitions. Broadly, those companies include those in gaming, dating, ride-hailing and streaming video. The analysts said based on these parameters, Facebook and Snap have the highest potential headwind due to IDFA changes, followed by Twitter and Pinterest. They said Google and Amazon have the lowest relative exposure. "However, when it comes to gravitational pull, relative ad efficacy, and access to 1st party data vs. other sub-scale platforms, programmatic ad networks and publishers, we expect the Big Six online ad companies to fare better than the rest of the industry," they wrote. "We expect more attention on this issue as we approach 4Q earnings/2021 outlook, and we'd be buyers on weakness, particularly of FB and SNAP shares, attributable to upcoming iOS 14 changes." In a December note, Bank of America analysts also said Facebook and Snap are most at risk from the changes, potentially creating a 3% revenue headwind for Facebook and a 5% headwind for Snap. They argue Twitter has some modest exposure to mobile app downloads, but the exposure is relatively small compared with that of Facebook and Snap. Pinterest and Google are the least exposed to IDFA, they said. Facebook has been outspoken about the change, most recently running newspaper ads, publishing a new website and running a blog post outlining its arguments opposing Apple over the change it claims "threatens the personalized ads that millions of small businesses rely on to find and reach customers." Facebook, in its blog post, argued that Apple's new tracking rules are "about profit, not privacy" and said it believes Apple is behaving anticompetitively by using control of the App Store in a way that benefits its bottom line at the expense of developers and small businesses.Apple told CNBC that the privacy feature gives iPhone users more control and transparency over how their data is tracked and used for advertising, and that apps will be able to explain the benefits of tracking to users in the prompt.In outlining bull arguments for the ad ecosystem as it pertains to the IDFA changes, MKM analysts said companies with scale and access to first-party data will benefit as ad dollars gravitate toward those kind of platforms. They also said the ad ecosystem has already been dealing with a growing focus on privacy and that secular trends have become stronger despite headwinds caused by privacy regulation. But, in describing their bearish arguments, they said mobile ad efficacy could also decline as measurement will be more "fuzzy" and that companies with limited first-party data will face headwinds. They also wrote that off-platform advertising could become less effective as cross-device advertising might not be able to rely on the same device signals it did before.— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed reporting.VIDEO5:3405:34CNBC tech editor on the Apple-Facebook clash over personal dataClosing Bell

2020/12/16, VIDEO3:1603:16Facebook blasts Apple over new privacy options for iPhone usersSquawk AlleyFacebook on Wednesday ran newspaper ads, published a new website and ran blog posts outlining its arguments opposing Apple over a privacy change that it claims "threatens the personalized ads that millions of small businesses rely on to find and reach customers." Facebook, in its blog post, argued that Apple's new tracking rules are "about profit, not privacy," and said it believes Apple is behaving anticompetitively by using control of the App Store in a way that benefits its bottom line at the expense of developers and small businesses.The company is running print and digital ads in The Wall Street Journal, New York Times and Washington Post that say: "We're standing up to Apple for small businesses everywhere." It also has a new website on an upcoming change to iOS 14 that affects how apps can use ad-tracking tools with Apple's ad identifier, the IDFA."Without personalized ads, Facebook data shows that the average small business advertiser stands to see a cut of over 60% in their sales for every dollar they spend," Facebook's print ad reads. "While limiting how personalized ads can be used does impact larger companies like us, these changes will be devastating to small businesses, adding to the many challenges they face right now."Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsFacebookThe ad leads readers to a link for a website on Facebook for Business, which includes videos of interviews from business owners speaking out against the ad change. It also includes explanations of what will happen, and a "toolkit" to make posts with the hashtag "#SpeakUpForSmall" to talk about the change. Apple will soon be making a huge change to settings on users' iPhones in the name of privacy, and it will fundamentally change mobile advertising on those devices. It will take a privacy option that was previously buried deep in users' phones and put it front and center when they open an app, which is expected to dramatically impact the ability of advertisers to target ads the way they have been since people likely won't opt in.Facebook has been outspoken about the change since it was announced in June, accusing Apple of moving the free, ad-supported internet into paid apps and services, where Apple can take its 30% cut, and crush small businesses' ability to do personalized advertising.In its blog post, Facebook also made the consumer-facing argument that apps and websites that were once free may start charging people for services or be forced out of business because they can no longer offer free products supported by advertising. "Paying for content may be fine for the well off, but many people just don't have room in their budget for these fees," the blog post, written by Facebook VP of ads and Business Products Dan Levy, says.Facebook reassured investors that it will not be severely impacted by Apple's change to iOS."We will be fine," said Levy on a call with reporters Wednesday. He said the company has already been factoring this into its expectations for Facebook's overall business, which he called "large and diverse." But he said the impact will be greater on creators and small businesses.Facebook also argued that Apple isn't "playing by their own rules," and said the company isn't subject to its own iOS 14 policies. An Apple spokesman disagreed, telling CNBC its own apps and services have to comply with its tracking rules and that its own ad network, called SKAdNetwork, is free for developers and Apple doesn't make any money off it."We believe that this is a simple matter of standing up for our users. Users should know when their data is being collected and shared across other apps and websites — and they should have the choice to allow that or not," Apple said in an emailed statement. "App Tracking Transparency in iOS 14 does not require Facebook to change its approach to tracking users and creating targeted advertising, it simply requires they give users a choice."In its blog post, Facebook also said it would provide information in the Epic Games litigation. Fortnite maker Epic Games is embroiled in a legal battle with Apple over the company's 30% fee and related practices.Steve Satterfield, a director of privacy and public policy at Facebook, said the company supported Epic and was prepared to provide relevant information about how Apple's policies are hurting "the millions of people and businesses who use our services."Also Wednesday, Facebook accused Apple of using its power to "harm developers and consumers" as it welcomed draft laws outlined by the European Commission, the executive arm of the EU. The laws introduce rules for platforms that act as "gatekeepers" in the digital sector, while the Digital Services Act is designed to address illegal and harmful content by asking platforms to quickly take it down.

2021/01/15, In this articleAAPLFounder and CEO of Bumble Whitney WolfeVivien Killilea | Getty Images Entertainment | Getty ImagesOnline dating app company Bumble said in its IPO filing on Friday that changes like Apple's upcoming privacy updates could hurt its business.Bumble said it expects just 0 to 20% of app users to agree to opt-in to sharing a unique ID, called the IDFA, for targeted advertising following the upcoming change from Apple. That could result in increased cost per registration for app developers and a more limited ability for advertisers to accurately target and measure campaigns for specific users, Bumble said. The company, which said in the document it will trade under the $BMBL ticker on the Nasdaq, runs dating apps Bumble and Badoo. In its risk factors, it included the IDFA change in a section on its reliance on third-party publishers and platforms to distribute and market its products. It said if those parties limit, prohibit or change that distribution or marketing, it could adversely affect Bumble's business.The change from Apple will prompt users with pop-ups in each app that ask for permission to track users, with an option to either allow or decline tracking. Advertisers use the ID, when it's available, to target ads and measure how effective they are. But the change is expected to dramatically impact the ability of advertisers to target ads the way they have been, since people likely won't opt in.Bumble earns revenue from online advertising, but says its revenue is primarily derived from recurring subscriptions and in-app purchases. It also pays for advertising to obtain new users. The company said advertising expenses for the year ended Dec. 31, 2019 totaled $130.4 million.Tech companies are bracing for the impact of the changes caused by IDFA when enforcement begins this year. In a December note, Bank of America analysts said Facebook and Snap are most at risk from the changes, potentially creating a 3% revenue headwind for Facebook and a 5% headwind for Snap.Israeli mobile game developer Playtika, which began trading on the Nasdaq on Friday, also called out the IDFA changes in its S-1. "If players elect to utilize the opt-out mechanisms in greater numbers, our ability to deliver effective advertisements would suffer, which could adversely affect our revenues from in-game advertising," Playtika's S-1 said.Other risksThe Bumble S-1 says certain publishers and channels have limited or banned ads for dating products for various reasons, including because of "poor behavior" by other services. Bumble said there's no assurance it wouldn't be limited from using certain marketing channels in the future and its business could be materially impacted if that were to happen for a significant period of time.Bumble also said it relies on Facebook for targeted ads and performance marketing. "In the event that we are no longer able to conduct targeted advertisement and performance marketing through Facebook, our user acquisition and revenue stream may be materially adversely affected," the S-1 says. VIDEO5:0105:01Facebook vs. Apple ad battle is a PR battle: Kindred Ventures' JangSquawk Alley

2021/02/22, Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.NYSEThis is the daily notebook of Mike Santoli, CNBC's senior markets commentator, with ideas about trends, stocks and market statistics.The excitement of a faster reopening has turned more urgent and has lots of money in motion across asset classes and market sectors. The rise in Treasury yields ran into some cautious words from Christine Lagarde but "reflation" energy is still animating the tape. So far, the net damage in the core indexes is pretty modest.

2021/01/08, VIDEO6:1306:13How one trader is playing small caps, Apple amid market rotationTrading NationThe stock market's wild ride this week has one trader updating his portfolio positions.TradingAnalysis.com founder Todd Gordon told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Thursday that three trends in the market rotation inspired him to shift gears.Stocks notched records Thursday on hopes around stronger-than-anticipated employment data and increased political clarity after Congress confirmed Joe Biden's election to the presidency and control of the Senate has shifted to the Democrats.But the fabric of the market was changing. Bond yields soared to their highest levels since late March, solar stocks surged on the prospects of clean energy legislation and large-cap growth stocks took a bit of a back seat to smaller- and mid-cap value names, Gordon said.Here's how he was navigating all three trends:Bond yields soarRising bond yields tend to benefit financial stocks, and small-cap financials appear to be in a particularly strong position, Gordon said."If there's more stimulus, more aid coming to small businesses, obviously, that's going to be good," he said. "Small-cap strength is indicative of underlying strength in the economy."His top pick was a mid-cap regional bank stock, Zions Bancorp, which recently broke through some downtrend resistance at around $49 a share.That resistance should now become support, Gordon said, adding that the stock's momentum trends are also strengthening."I'm going to go ahead and add a position right here," he said. "If we break below 48, I'll start to get nervous and then if we do get back below 43, I will cut the entire position."Solar stocks surgeGordon also wanted to add to his position in the stock of solar panel maker Sunrun as renewable stocks surged in anticipation of President-elect Biden's focus on clean energy policies."This one has performed extremely well," Gordon said. "We have broken out through resistance at about 82 right here. We're trading at 93. If you don't have this one yet, don't go all in. I would start to piece in here."Because he already had a position in the stock, Gordon bought fewer than 100 shares."I do like to add to winning positions, but don't add more shares than what you originally bought because you're going to hurt your average price too much," he said.Large caps vs. small capsAs investors slowly warm to smaller-scale trades, Gordon was also looking to protect one of his larger positions."We are seeing pretty good rotation out of large-cap growth and into smaller-cap and mid-cap value, but also, we're not seeing a complete abandoning-of-ship of growth," he said.As such, he wanted to shield his position in Apple in case Big Tech eventually rolls over."I'm a little concerned with Apple's kind of double top up here at about 138," he said, adding that its daily and weekly momentum indicators are growing weaker.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwards"Large-cap tech is obviously falling out of focus. We'll see what kind of antitrust and regulation activities are coming down the pike here. So, I want to start to protect some of my Apple," he said.Gordon did that by selling Feb. 5 calls around the $138 level, where Apple shares appeared to be topping out.Disclosure: Gordon owns shares of Zions Bancorp, Sunrun and Apple.Disclaimer

2020/12/29, In this articleMSFTAMZNAAPLVIDEO7:0707:07Apple, Amazon and Microsoft: Ride the wave or time to pivot?Trading NationRide the wave or run for the hills?That's how two traders approached Amazon, Apple and Microsoft on Monday as the broader market continued its march to record highs.The three tech giants' stocks are responsible for more than half of the S&P 500's gains this year, according to Reuters and S&P Dow Jones Indices.Newton Advisors' Mark Newton and BK Asset Management's Boris Schlossberg told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Monday that it wasn't yet time to sell."If there's any one message, it's that consolidation sometimes can be something that refreshes," said Newton, founder and president of his firm. "It doesn't necessarily mean that the stocks are rolling over."Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsPointing to a chart of Amazon, he noted that the shares have "started to kick back into gear," saying one of their recent breakouts paves the way for a run to $3,450 or $3,500 a share.Amazon was up nearly 1% to around $3,315.73 in early Tuesday trading."Of the larger names, this is one that I would own," Newton said. "I certainly would stick in the FAANG stocks."Fellow FAANG member Apple didn't look quite as "appealing" as Amazon, Newton said. FAANG is a widely used acronym for the stocks of Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet."This is a stock that I don't mind trimming into end of year as it approaches these all-time highs," he said. "This one for me is not as big of a risk-reward."Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsNewton's bottom line, however, was unwavering."Until you start to see meaningful weakness, it's still going to be right to stick with these stocks. It's just not enough to suggest that getting out of the group as a whole makes a whole lot of sense right now," he said. "Really, until the group violates September lows, one still wants to be in them."Schlossberg, who is managing director of FX strategy at BK Asset Management, said all three tech juggernauts "should continue to dominate in the near term.""In a digital economy, the companies that have economies of scale, they're all rewarded, and every one of these companies has huge economies of scale," Schlossberg said. "In fact, I think the single biggest business threat to Apple, Amazon and Microsoft is really from regulators, not competition."He predicted that a Biden administration's preoccupation with mitigating the Covid-19 crisis and ushering along an economic recovery would postpone near-term regulatory threats to the group."In the meantime, Apple has a new phone cycle coming up, Amazon continues to garner share in the retail space and Microsoft just completely dominates the corporate space," he said. "For me, I just don't think there's any reason for investors to abandon what's working. You'll have some minor fluctuations, but overall, as I said, the spoils go to the winner, and in this economy, it's a winner-takes-all type of a structure."Disclaimer

2021/01/22, A Chinese customer walks by a large screen at the official opening of the new Apple Store in the Sanlitun shopping area on July 17, 2020 in Beijing, China.Kevin Frayer | Getty ImagesStimulus euphoria may be waning, but investors will have plenty to focus on in the week ahead, as a blast of earnings news hits, the Federal Reserve meets and new data will show the state of the economy at the end of the year.Stocks gained in the past week on optimism for a $1.9 trillion stimulus package, proposed by President Joe Biden. But by Friday, the market lost steam amid increased concerns about the pandemic's economic impact, and as it seemed Biden would not have an easy time getting the stimulus plan approved.Apple, Facebook, Microsoft, Tesla and more than 100 other S&P 500 companies report earnings in the biggest rush of earnings reports this quarter.VIDEO2:4702:47Cramer breaks down analysts' pre-earnings Apple callsSquawk on the StreetThe pandemic will also be a factor as travel restrictions and lockdowns threaten the global economy, and worries remain over the speed of vaccine distributions.But there is hope that Johnson and Johnson will release positive news on its vaccine results soon, and if that's the case it could signal another source of vaccines will be available. The J&J vaccine would be a single shot, as opposed to the currently available double-shot vaccines."We expect to see their results," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at National Securities. "That could be super bullish." The company reports earnings on Tuesday.Hogan said the market may also respond to Covid news. He said the seven-day average in new Covid cases fell below the 14-day average this past week for the first time since Thanksgiving, and if that continues, it could indicate a peak.If the virus news improves, the market could resume its grind higher in the coming week, said Hogan.EconomyAs for the economy, the first look at fourth quarter real gross domestic product comes Thursday, and it is expected to show growth of 4.7%, according to the CNBC/Moody's Analytics Rapid Update survey. For the year, the economists surveyed expect GDP contracted by 3.5%. The economists forecast 5% growth for 2021.Consumers pulled back at the end of the fourth quarter, evidenced by a surprise 0.7% decline in December retail sales reported this past week, after a negative November."You're really going to see a loss of momentum throughout the quarter," said Kevin Cummins, chief U.S. economist at NatWest Markets. "It's a set up for a really weak Q1." PMI data shows manufacturing activity has been strong, but labor market data is weak and consumer spending is disappointing."You've got to juxtapose what's happening with the vaccine and the virus with what's happening with underlying data. We've definitely seen a lot of the things that could spark a pullback," said Lori Calvasina, chief U.S. equity strategist at RBC.Calvasina and other strategists expect a sell-off early in the year.Stocks hit new highs across the major indices Wednesday, as Biden was inaugurated, and many technicians see the market as overbought. The catalyst for a pullback is not clear, but strategists expect the market to gain this year and say a buying opportunity would open up with any decline."Do we start to see stuff showing up in that data that makes us question that recovery?" said Calvasina. "My assumption is we're going to get a lot of volatility in that data, and we're going to get some downdrafts but it's not going to be bad enough to erase this upward trajectory we've seen in the economy since the second quarter."Fed aheadThe Fed is also a powerful backstop for the market, and economists don't expect the Fed to take any action or change in its dovish tone when it releases its statement Wednesday afternoon, following its two-day meeting."I don't see them making many changes," said Cummins of NatWest. "They'll probably acknowledge just the fact that employment was weak."It's going to be pretty clear cut," he added. "I think Powell will sound similar to what he sounded like in September." Cummins said the Fed chairman is likely to say the economic outlook depends on the course of the virus and vaccine.There is also durable goods data Wednesday and personal income and spending data on Friday. The Fed's favorite inflation gauge, the PCE deflator is also released Friday, and Powell will surely be asked Wednesday afternoon about inflation, which is increasingly being priced into market expectations.Powell is also likely to be asked his views on fiscal stimulus, which could end up being smaller than some expect.Hogan of National Securities said the market traded lower on Friday on expectations the package could be smaller and take longer than expected to gain approval."I think the realism of saying $1.9 trillion and doing $1.9 trillion are two different things," he said. "We fall into that trap all the time.""What's happening now is there is no magic wand here," Hogan added. "It's not to say there's no stimulus. It's just a matter of how long it will take and how much there will be. There's a little bit of realism."Bitcoin vs stocksStrategists say the trigger for a sell-off could be just about anything.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsMatt Maley, chief market strategist at Miller Tabak, said a pullback could be sparked if bitcoin starts to fall more sharply, since some investors would sell stock in response. "When there's no bid in bitcoin they have to sell something, and they sell stock," said Maley.Bitcoin has had a wild early ride in 2021. The cryptocurrency hit a record high of $41,973 on Jan. 12, according to data from Coin Metrics. Days later, it fell about 15%, wiping out as much as $200 billion in just 24 hours.Bitcoin then regained some of its losses, surging to near $40,000 before another reversal. On Friday, it was trading at $33,200 after dipping below $30,000."If this thing starts tanking again, it's going to cause some forced selling and it's going to cause some selling in the stock market," said Maley, adding it will be important to hold the low from Thursday night.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsHe said the short position in the dollar is also an overcrowded trade that could turn quickly. A resulting short squeeze could cause a dollar rally that would be negative for the stock market. He also is watching Tesla, which reports earnings on Wednesday."I think whether it be bitcoin, the dollar, Tesla, one of these crowded trades...it's going to turn the narrative that's permeating right now, and if we don't get a surprise the market will continue to push higher," he said.Week ahead calendarMondayEarnings: Kimberly-Clark, Yamana Gold, Steel DynamicsTuesdayFOMC meeting beginsEarnings: Microsoft, 3M, Johnson & Johnson, American Express, Starbucks, Raytheon, Verizon, Texas Instruments, Lockheed Martin, UBS, D.R. Horton, General Electric, Novartis, UBS, Freeport-McMoRan, Paccar, Capital One, Advanced Micro Devices9:00 a.m. S&P/Case-Shiller home prices9:00 a.m. FHFA home prices10:00 a.m. Consumer confidenceWednesdayEarnings: Facebook, Apple, Tesla, AT&T, Boeing, General Dynamics, Whirlpool, Norfolk Southern, Blackstone, Nasdaq, Anthem, Abbott Labs, Textron, Corning, Hess, VF Corp, Samsung, Teradyne, Canadian Pacific Railway, Raymond James, Levi Strauss8:30 a.m. Durable goods2 p.m. Fed rate decision2:30 p.m. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell briefingThursdayEarnings: McDonald's, Dow, Visa, Mondelez, Northrop Grumman, Comcast, Mastercard, PulteGroup, Southwest Air, Altria, American Airlines, JetBlue, T.Rowe Price, McCormick, Brunswick, Marsh and McLennan, Sherwin-Williams, Stanley Black and Decker, Canon, Valero Energy, Beazer Homes8:30 a.m. Initial jobless claims8:30 a.m. Q4 Real GDP10:00 a.m. Advance economic indicators10:00 a.m. New home salesFridayEarnings: Chevron, Caterpillar, Colgate-Palmolive, SAP, Eli Lilly, Honeywell, Weyerhaeuser, Synchrony Financial, Booz Allen, LyondellBasell, Church and Dwight8:30 a.m. Personal income and spending9:45 a.m. Chicago PMI10:00 a.m. Pending home sales10:00 a.m. Consumer sentiment

2020/12/14, In this articleAAPLApple CEO Tim Cook delivers a keynote during the European Union's privacy conference at the EU Parliament in Brussels, Belgium October 24, 2018.Yves Herman | ReutersApple on Monday updated its App Store to show "privacy labels" detailing the information that iPhone apps collect about users.The labels are prominently displayed underneath a button to download the app. Most apps will receive as many as three labels, based on information app makers are required to submit to Apple to update their apps.The move is the latest in a long string of new features Apple has introduced to limit ad tracking and other practices that collect user data from iPhone users. In recent years, Apple has increasingly relied on privacy features to distinguish its products from competitors, including phone makers using Google's Android.Monday's announcement is a major privacy feature for the App Store, which is the only way for software makers to distribute iPhone apps, and is an example of how Apple is using control over its operating system to pressure third-party developers to comply with Apple's privacy standards.But the labels, first announced in June, have drawn criticism from app makers that use ads to make money. That's because ad-supported apps may receive a "data used to track you" label, which could discourage users from downloading the app.For example, last week, Facebook subsidiary WhatsApp said in a blog post that Apple's privacy label for its app doesn't fully describe how the messaging service uses user data.The labels include:Data used to track you: Developers can link user data collected from the app to information from outside the app, such as other apps or websites, often to serve targeted ads or measure how effective ads are.Data linked to you: Developers collect information that is linked to your device, account, or identity.Data not linked to you: Developers can collect data but say they will not link the information it collects to it to your account or device identifier.No data collected: Apps that don't collect any information about the user.No information available: This label will be reserved for apps that have not been updated since the requirement went into place. But most popular apps currently under development are regularly updated, so the privacy labels will be on most of the apps on the store, Apple said.Every app submitted to the App Store needs to provide information to create these labelsAppleThe new labels will specify exactly which types of user data, such as location or contact information, are used for which purposes."Apple's view is that users deserve to be more aware and in control of their location data," Apple's senior vice president for software, Craig Federighi, said in a speech last week, adding that some users don't know that they're providing data such as location to apps and that the iPhone allows location data or other specific types of access to data to be turned off app-by-app.Apple said that its intention with its labels is to give users the information they need to make choices about which apps they are comfortable using.Apple's own apps will be labeled under the same criteria as third-party developers. Apple apps that can be downloaded from the App Store will get labels on their download pages. Other Apple apps that are built into the phone, such as Messages, will have the same information published on Apple's website.

2020/12/22, In this articleTSLAAAPLVIDEO1:3001:30Elon Musk says he tried to sell Tesla to Apple in 2018Squawk BoxOn Tuesday, Tesla CEO Elon Musk tweeted that he considered selling his electric car company to Apple in recent years, but Apple CEO Tim Cook was not even interested in taking a meeting.Specifically, Musk wrote in a tweet on December 22:"During the darkest days of the Model 3 program, I reached out to Tim Cook to discuss the possibility of Apple acquiring Tesla (for 1/10 of our current value). He refused to take the meeting."On Tuesday, Musk also made remarks about lithium iron phosphate batteries that Apple is reportedly developing for use in vehicles, per a Reuters report on Monday."Strange, if true," Musk wrote. "Tesla already uses iron-phosphate for medium range cars made in our Shanghai factory.- A monocell is electrochemically impossible, as max voltage is ~100X too low. Maybe they meant cells bonded together, like our structural battery pack?"It was a rare admission from the mercurial CEO that he once considered giving up control of the company he helped build and take to a market value that's more than the top nine automakers combined. Tesla has not discussed a sale in any financial filing.In 2018, Musk did publicly say the car business was "hell," and that he was sleeping at the factory to try to solve the problems the company was having as it tried to start mass-manufacturing its Model 3 electric sedans.He also previously said, in a tweet, that Tesla once got "about a month" from bankruptcy during the Model 3 ramp-up — a detail that the company never disclosed in its quarterly filings.Tesla and Apple have always competed for talent in and beyond Silicon Valley. In 2015, Musk called Apple the Tesla graveyard. "If you don't make it at Tesla you go work for Apple," he quipped then.In July 2018, Apple hired Tesla engineering chief Doug Field — a former Apple employee — back to the company, following scores of other employees.At the time, Tesla told CNBC in a statement about Apple's ability to poach key employees from its ranks: "Tesla is the hard path. We have 100 times less money than Apple, so of course they can afford to pay more. We are in extremely difficult battles against entrenched auto companies that make 100 times more cars than we did last year, so of course this is very hard work."Apple has never acknowledged plans to build a car, but Cook has admitted that it's worked on "autonomous systems" that could be used in self-driving cars or for other purposes.Apple and Tesla did not immediately respond to requests for comment.VIDEO2:5102:51Apple reportedly targets self-driving electric car production in 2024Autos

2021/01/12, In this articleAAPLVIACTim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple, speaks at the 2019 Dreamforce conference in San Francisco on November 19, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple CEO Tim Cook said in an interview with "CBS This Morning" that anyone with a role in the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol last week should be held accountable. Cook did not exempt President Donald Trump from that statement."I think no one is above the law," Cook told CBS' Gayle King in a clip that aired on Tuesday. "I mean that's the great thing about our country, we're a rule-of-law country. I think everyone that had a part in it needs to be held accountable."Cook said that the events are not something the country should just seek to move on from, though he did say eventually "we need to move forward.""I don't think we should let it go," Cook said. "I think holding people accountable is important."Apple removed Parler, an alternative social media app, from its App Store on Saturday after finding that it was being used to spread calls of violence in the wake of the Capitol riots, in violation of its rules against objectionable content.Cook has maintained a relatively close but balanced relationship with Trump during his time in office. While Cook has criticized key Trump policies such as his decision to terminate DACA, the Obama-era program that protects some immigrants from deportation, and ran a fundraiser for Hillary Clinton in 2016, he has managed to gain Trump's support more than the leaders of many other Big Tech companies have. The relationship has arguably paid off by allowing Apple to repatriate cash at lower tax rates and get its products exempt from tariffs on China-imported goods.King said the interview with Cook was prescheduled to unveil a "big announcement" on Wednesday when the full interview airs. King said the announcement is not about a new product.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2021/01/21, VIDEO5:2005:20Union Pacific CEO on 2021 outlook, latest earnings and moreSquawk on the StreetHere are the stocks making headlines in midday trading.United Airlines – Shares of the major U.S. airline tumbled 5.7% after the company posted a $1.9 billion loss for the fourth quarter. United suffered its fourthly quarterly loss in a row and warned that sales would continue to suffer in the early part of 2021 as the pandemic drags on. CEO Scott Kirby said a "critical mass" of people need to be vaccinated before there's a recovery.SolarEdge – The smart energy technology company gained 6.7% after Morgan Stanley initiated coverage on the stock with an overweight rating. In a note titled "The Sun Keeps on Shining," the firm said SolarEdge should continue to gain market share in a "fast growing space."Apple – The tech giant jumped more than 3% after top analyst Katy Huberty from Morgan Stanley said she expects a record December quarter earnings report. The analyst said the bank's channel examination of Apple's portfolio of products and services, driven by 5G adoption and the working from home trend.Fastly – Shares of the cloud computing services provider jumped 6.8% after Oppenheimer upgraded the stock to outperform from perform. The Wall Street firm said its analysis suggested record traffic volumes and noted that consumer behavior has shifted to cheaper and better e-commerce and streaming.Union Pacific – The railroad company dipped more than 4% following its fourth quarter results. The company earned $2.36 per share excluding items during the period. According to estimates from FactSet, analysts were expecting the company to earn $2.25 per share. "While the economic outlook for 2021 remains uncertain, we will build off our solid 2020 performance to produce continued strong productivity through operational excellence. We expect our enhanced service product will support both solid core pricing gains while also increasing our share of the freight transportation market," CEO Lance Fritz said in a statement.Discover Financial — Shares of the financial services company lost 5.7% despite the company topping analyst expectations for quarterly results. Discover Financial reported earnings of $2.59 per share, above estimates of $2.42 per share, according to Refinitiv. Revenue came in in-line with expectations at $2.82 billion. The company expects modestly positive loan growth this year, but also sees an increase in credit losses during the second half of this year.Exxon – The oil giant slid more than 2.9% after Jefferies initiated coverage on the stock with an underperform rating and $39 target. "We don't see Exxon covering its dividend on an organic basis until at least 2023," the firm said in a note to clients.KB Home, Lennar, D.R. Horton — Shares of homebuilding stocks rose on Thursday, bringing the iShares U.S. Home Construction ETF up 1.5%, after housing starts data beat expectations. KB Home rose 1.7% and Lennar popped 1.3%. D.R. Horton and PulteGroup rose 1.9%.Ford — The auto stock gained 6% after rising more than 8% on Wednesday, continuing a strong stretch for legacy automakers. Deutsche Bank named Ford a short-term buy on Wednesday, saying the company could announced better-than-expected guidance for 2021 when it reports earnings next month.Capri Holdings — Shares rose slightly on Thursday after Deutsche Bank upgraded the multinational fashion company to buy from hold. The Wall Street firm said the Jimmy Choo-parent company is one  of the most "intriguing" stories in retail.— CNBC's Maggie Fitzgerald, Yun Li and Pippa Stevens contributed to this story.

2020/12/10, In this articleAAPLVIDEO2:4002:40First look: Apple's AirPods Max provide great sound and style for a hefty priceTechApple sent me a pair of its new AirPods Max headphones to check out ahead of their release on Dec. 15. The $549 price tag shocked a lot of people when Apple unveiled them earlier this week. And, yeah, that's a lot of money. But they sure are nice.Apple dominates the Bluetooth headphone business, with more than a 50% share of the market, according to Strategy Analytics. That's thanks to the huge success of the original AirPods and AirPods Pro. With the AirPods Max, Apple built a luxury pair of headphones that borrows some of the features from the AirPods Pro but with larger speakers and more premium materials like steel and aluminum and better sound.The AirPods Max kind of remind me of the original HomePod. It's one of the best sounding smart speakers on the market, but it also costs several times more than competitors from Amazon and Google. Apple may not sell millions and millions of the AirPods Max the way it does the AirPods, but it doesn't need to. I think these are really just a top-tier option for people who want the best headphones Apple makes. Sort of like how Apple sells a $5,999 Mac Pro for people who want the best Mac Apple makes.Here's a look at the AirPods Max:They come in this AirPods Max Smart Case, which looks a bit like a purseApple AirPods MaxTodd Haselton | CNBCThis case serves a purpose, though. It has magnets inside so that when you put the AirPods Max in it they automatically go into low power mode to help save battery life. I agree with the critics. It looks a little weird.They're super comfortableApple AirPods MaxTodd Haselton | CNBCI wore the AirPods Max for several hours Wednesday and they felt super comfortable. There's a breathable mesh band on the top that felt light on my head and didn't get sweaty or hot. I also love the ear cups, which are spacious and fit around my ears instead of sitting on them.There are a lot of high-end touches, like aluminum cups and a steel frame, instead of plastic parts you might find in competing headsets. I also dig the Digital Crown that Apple brought over from the Apple Watch. It feels solid and turns easily to adjust the volume. A lot of competing high-end headphones use touch controls for volume, which isn't as accurate as a physical control.They're easy to useApple AirPods MaxTodd Haselton | CNBCThe AirPods Max are just as easy as other AirPods to set up. That's important, since it's one of the reasons the AirPods are so successful. You just turn the AirPods Max on, bring your iPhone or iPad nearby, and tap a pop-up that says "connect." That's it. There's no need to poke through your Bluetooth settings for the connection.I like that it's easy to switch between an iPhone, Mac or iPad, too. But, they don't have a 3.5 mm headphone jack so you'll need to buy an adapter and a cord if you want to use them with non-Bluetooth devices.You don't need an Apple gadget to use the AirPods Max. They'll connect to Android phones, Windows PCs and other devices like any other Bluetooth headset.They sound greatApple AirPods MaxTodd Haselton | CNBCThey sound really good to me. I'll revisit more in my full review, but I also don't know that I could stand here right now and pinpoint exactly how much better they sound than a pair of Bose or Sony headphones. The noise cancellation is pretty solid: I didn't hear people talking in the room next to me while I was working. I'm not sure how they'll compare on an airplane to Bose yet, though. And I won't be flying anytime soon for obvious reasons.Apple has a few tricks competitors don't have, like Spatial Audio, which makes it sound like noises in a movie are coming from all around you and from the source, like your iPad or iPhone. It's a cool feature Apple recently added to the AirPods Pro.There are lots of sensors, so the headphones pause audio when you take them off, or even when you lift an earcup. That works well.Finally, I tested the microphones with a quick 10-minute call Wednesday. It seemed like the other side heard me just fine, and I could hear them perfectly.They're bigApple AirPods MaxTodd Haselton | CNBCThe AirPods Max are also pretty big. One of the reasons I love the AirPods Pro so much is that, back when we could travel, I was able to leave my Bose headphones at home and use the noise cancellation in the much smaller earbuds. They just slip in my pocket and I can carry them with me wherever I go. The AirPods Max don't have that convenience. They're still big enough that you'll need a bag to carry them around. But they're perfect at home right now when I'm mostly sitting at my computer most of the day.VIDEO1:1801:18Apple announces AirPods Max over-ear headphones for $549Squawk BoxSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/12/19, NEW YORK, NEW YORK - SEPTEMBER 20: Apple CEO Tim Cook greets customers at the grand reopening of Apple's flagship Apple Fifth Avenue retail store on September 20, 2019 in New York City.Taylor Hill | WireImage | Getty ImagesApple has temporarily closed all 53 of its retail stores in California after the number of coronavirus cases reached new daily records in its home state this week. A listing of stores on the phone maker's website reflects the change, which does not affect bordering states Arizona and Nevada.The move shows how a major technology company is trying to reduce spread of the virus for employees and consumers, despite potential business impact."Due to current Covid-19 conditions in some of the communities we serve, we are temporarily closing stores in these areas," an Apple spokesperson told CNBC in an email. "We take this step with an abundance of caution as we closely monitor the situation and we look forward to having our teams and customers back as soon as possible."Customers can still pick up existing orders and products the Genius Bar has repaired over the next few days, the spokesperson said.On Friday Bloomberg reported that Apple had temporarily closed its stores in the Los Angeles area, one day after the state said Southern California had run out of intensive care unit beds.On Wednesday California said it had 53,711 new Covid-19 cases, breaking the record of 35,729 that had been set on Sunday.Four of the state's five geographical regions are currently adhering to stay at home orders, which permit retail stores to operate indoors at 20% capacity. Stores must enforce entrance metering, and no meeting or drinking is permitted.In March, as the virus was beginning to circulate in the U.S., Apple said it was closing all stores outside China until March 27. Some U.S. stores reopened for curbside service, and in the early summer Apple closed more U.S. stores as the number of cases jumped.Store closures have impacted Apple's AppleCare support business this year, Luca Maestri, the company's chief financial officer, said in April.The Apple spokesperson said customers can shop, get product help and find store information on the company's website.-- CNBC's Kif Leswing contributed to this report.WATCH: 77 Apple stores have re-closed in recent weeksVIDEO0:4800:4877 Apple stores have re-closed in recent weeksClosing Bell

2020/12/16, In this articleAAPLFBThe Facebook app is displayed on the screen of an iPhone.Fabian Sommer | picture alliance | Getty ImagesLONDON — Facebook accused Apple of using its power to "harm developers and consumers" and welcomed draft laws outlined by the European Commission. The new laws announced Tuesday — known as the Digital Markets Act and the Digital Services Act — are designed to keep the tech giants in check. The DMA introduces rules for platforms that act as "gatekeepers" in the digital sector, while the DSA is designed to address illegal and harmful content by asking platforms to rapidly take it down."We hope the DMA will also set boundaries for Apple," a Facebook spokesman said in a statement. "Apple controls an entire ecosystem from device to app store and apps, and uses this power to harm developers and consumers, as well as large platforms like Facebook."In a statement shared with CNBC, Apple said: "We believe that this is a simple matter of standing up for our users. Users should know when their data is being collected and shared across other apps and websites — and they should have the choice to allow that or not. App Tracking Transparency in iOS 14 does not require Facebook to change its approach to tracking users and creating targeted advertising, it simply requires they give users a choice."The EU Commission, the executive arm of the EU, said it could fine gatekeepers up to 10% of their total worldwide annual turnover if they broke the proposed rules. For Apple, that would be around $26 billion.Apple and Facebook have been feuding ever since Apple announced a privacy tool that lets users block advertisers from tracking them across different apps.When the feature was announced, Facebook, which makes money from selling ads, claimed it would hurt developers. Apple responded saying: "When invasive tracking is your business model, you tend not to welcome transparency and customer choice."Mixed responsesFacebook, which also owns Instagram and WhatsApp, has struggled to keep misinformation, hate speech and extremist content off its platforms for years. However, it said it broadly welcomed the "harmonized EU rules."The proposed laws, which still need to be approved by the European Parliament before they are passed, were welcomed by other tech companies like Spotify, which filed an antitrust lawsuit against Apple in March 2019, saying Apple Music has an "unfair advantage" over rivals."The DMA is a significant step towards greater innovation and competition on fair terms in the European market," said Horacio Gutierrez, head of global affairs and chief legal officer at Spotify. "There is now a global consensus that large gatekeeper platforms are leveraging their power in ways that slow innovation and hurt consumers, and that regulation is needed to avoid harm before it becomes irreparable."TikTok, which has also been criticized for hosting questionable content on its platform, also welcomed the rules. "It's clear that platforms play an important role in society, and it is right that they are transparent and held to account," said Caroline Greer, director of government relations and public policy for TikTok in Brussels.Sinead McSweeney, VP of public policy for Twitter EMEA, said her company welcomed the publication of the acts, saying that they come at a "critical political juncture" in Europe and around the world.Google, which has been accused of trying to quash firms in other industries and hosting questionable material on YouTube, was less positive about the new legislation."We are concerned that they appear to specifically target a handful of companies and make it harder to develop new products to support small businesses in Europe," said Karan Bhatia, Google's vice president of government affairs and public policy."We will continue to advocate for new rules that support innovation, increase responsibility and promote economic recovery to the benefit of European consumers and businesses."Amazon, which has contributed to the demise of some physical stores, declined to comment, instead pointing to a blog post by Xavier Garambois, Amazon's vice president for EU retail, that outlines the company's overall position."We share the European Commission's ambition to remove barriers so that consumers and businesses of all sizes can take full advantage of the European single market," reads the blog published Dec. 3."It's in the interest of Europe's consumers that … policy continues to enable creativity, while ensuring the same rules apply to all companies."

2020/12/08, Craig Federighi, Apple's senior vice president of Software Engineering, speaks during an announcement of new products at the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference Monday, June 4, 2018, in San Jose, Calif.Marcio Jose Sanchez | APStarting next year, Apple will remove apps from its App Store that track users without first receiving permission, a move that promises to bolster iPhone user privacy but will likely shake the app advertising industry.To target ads and measure how effective they are, app developers and other industry players currently often use an Identifier for Advertisers (IDFA), or a string of letters and numbers that's different on every Apple device.In an update to the iPhone operating system expected "early next year," app makers will be forced to ask permission to access a user's IDFA through a pop-up. A significant portion of users will likely decide to opt-out, reducing the effectiveness and profitability of targeted ads. The change takes a privacy option that was previously buried in settings and puts it front and center when users open each app.On Tuesday, Apple's senior vice president of software engineering Craig Federighi said apps that don't comply with the new requirements, which Apple calls App Tracking Transparency (ATT), can be removed from the App Store, which is the only way to install software on an iPhone.The move pits app developers who make money through targeted ads against Apple, which has increasingly built privacy features into its products as a way to differentiate them from competitors. Critics include Facebook, which said that the change could reduce revenue by 50% in one of its advertising businesses."Some in the ad industry are lobbying against these efforts—claiming that ATT will dramatically hurt ad-supported businesses—but we expect that the industry will adapt as it did when we introduced intelligent tracking prevention, providing effective advertising without invasive tracking," Federighi said in a speech at a European privacy conference.Some examples of tracking that app makers would be required to get permission from the user before doing, according to Apple:Displaying targeted advertisements in apps based on user data collected from apps and websites owned by other companies.Sharing device location data or email lists with a data broker.Sharing a list of emails, advertising IDs, or other IDs with a third-party advertising network that uses the information to retarget those users in other developers' apps or to find similar users."Early next year, we'll begin requiring all apps that want to do that to obtain their users' explicit permission, and developers who fail to meet that standard can have their apps taken down from the App Store," Federighi said.The disclosure that Apple can remove non-compliant apps also raises the stakes for a date expected early next year when app developers will have to explicitly ask permission to use the IDFA to perform tracking, forcing developers to rebuild part of their ad targeting systems to comply with Apple's requirements.Apple's iPhones account for just over 25% of smartphones around the world, according to StatCounter, but its market share is higher in countries such as the United States. In addition, iPhone users are often wealthier and seen as more valuable customers. If app developers are removed from the App Store, they will lose a major market.Apple's ATT is the latest in a line of moves that reduces the ability of advertisers to collect data on iPhone users. In 2017, Apple introduced a feature called ITP that used machine learning to block ad trackers on Apple's Safari browser. On Tuesday, Apple started requiring app developers to submit a detailed questionnaire about its privacy practices and the data they and third-party partners collect before being approved on the App Store.Apple has been criticized on both sides of the IDFA issue. In France, advertising companies and publishers filed a competition complaint in October alleging that the planned move away from the IDFA uses privacy as a cover for anticompetitive conduct to hurt smaller technology companies.Last month, Apple was also hit by complaints by activists in Europe which claimed that the IDFA — the current system — doesn't comply with European privacy laws."We delayed the release of ATT to early next year to give developers the time they indicated they needed to properly update their systems and data practices, but we remain fully committed to ATT and to our expansive approach to privacy protections," Jane Horvath, senior director of privacy at Apple, said in response.Apple has not publicly said when ATT will go into effect.VIDEO13:4113:41How Apple gets you to spend moneyHooked

2020/12/17, In this articleAAPLFBFacebook's logo displayed on a phone screen.Jakub Porzycki | NurPhoto via Getty ImagesThe day after launching an attack on Apple's upcoming privacy change, Facebook is running another ad prompting consumers to consider whether they would pay for apps that are currently free.Facebook on Wednesday ran newspaper ads, published a new website and ran blog posts outlining its arguments against Apple's privacy change, which it claims "threatens the personalized ads that millions of small businesses rely on to find and reach customers." Apple will soon be making a change to settings on users' iPhones in the name of privacy, and it will fundamentally change the way mobile advertising works on those devices. It will take a privacy option that was previously buried deep in users' phones and put it front and center when they open an app. It's expected to dramatically impact the ability of advertisers to target ads the way they have been since people are not likely to opt in.Facebook has been outspoken about the change since it was announced in June, accusing Apple of moving the free, ad-supported internet into paid apps and services, where Apple can take its 30% cut.A new Facebook ad, running in The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times and The Washington Post on Thursday, took a different tack: suggesting content makers will have to turn to subscriptions to replace lost ad revenue, and leaving consumers to have to pay for what once was free."Take your favorite cooking sites or sports blogs," the ad said. "Most are free because they show advertisements. Apple's change will limit their ability to run personalized ads. To make ends meet, many will have to start charging you subscription fees or adding more in-app purchases, making the internet much more expensive and reducing high-quality free content." Wednesday's ads introduced a new page on Facebook for Business, which includes videos of interviews from business owners speaking out against the ad change. It also includes explanations of what will happen, and a "toolkit" to make posts with the hashtag "#SpeakUpForSmall" to talk about the change. Apple defended its policy change, saying it's "a simple matter of standing up for our users.""Users should know when their data is being collected and shared across other apps and websites — and they should have the choice to allow that or not," Apple said in an emailed statement Wednesday. "App Tracking Transparency in iOS 14 does not require Facebook to change its approach to tracking users and creating targeted advertising, it simply requires they give users a choice."VIDEO2:5702:57Apple hits Facebook over ad-targeting practicesSquawk Alley

2021/02/17, Traders on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeSource: The New York Stock ExchangeThis is the daily notebook of Mike Santoli, CNBC's senior markets commentator, with ideas about trends, stocks and market statistics.

2020/12/08, Apple Watch FitnessSource: Apple Inc.Apple announced the release Fitness+, its subscription service for digital fitness classes, on Tuesday. The news sending shares of Peloton lower in pre-market trading but they recovered in the morning and are up slightly.Apple's service, which launches Dec. 14, will cost $9.99 per month or $79.99 per year. Users can watch workout videos on their iPhones, iPads, or Apple TVs and sync their exercise metrics from their Apple Watches. A Peloton subscription starts at $12.99 per month for fitness classes that don't require the company's connected bike.Peloton shares dipped as much as 2% in pre-market trading on the news. The stock recovered after markets opened and shares were up about 1% Tuesday morning.VIDEO15:3015:30How Apple plans to become a big player in health careTechBut Peloton CEO John Foley has argued previously the company separates itself from Apple in its hardware products, such as its high-tech bikes and treadmills.Apple Fitness+ will focus on workout content and include a personalized recommendation engine. It will integrate metrics from Apple Watch onto users' screens during their workouts to keep them motivated. The service will be linked to the Apple ecosystem so that Apple Music subscribers, for example, will be able to access their own songs or fitness playlists.Apple Watch users will automatically see Fitness+ as a new tab in the iPhone Fitness app on Dec. 14. Apple TV users can get the app by upgrading their operating system and iPad users can download it through the App Store.Fitness+ is the latest offering in Apple's effort to bundle services together in subscription plans. In October, Apple launched Apple One, which gives users access to services like Apple Music, TV+ and News+ for one monthly payment. Fitness+ will be available in the Premier option, which costs $29.95 per month.

2021/01/05, In this articleAAPLPeople seen outside the Apple store at Marina Bay Sands. In a shape of a giant orb, Apple's third retail store, Apple Marina Bay Sands officially opened on September 10 this year.Maverick Asio | LightRocket | Getty ImagesApple said Tuesday it has named Monica Lozano, chief executive officer of College Futures Foundation, to its board.Lozano also is on the boards of Target and Bank of America.Before becoming CEO of the foundation, Lozano worked as an editor and publisher of the largest Spanish-language paper in the U.S., La Opinion. She also was chairman and CEO of the paper's parent company, ImpreMedia, and is a former board member of The Walt Disney Co.The appointment brings the total number of Apple's board of directors to eight."Lozano brings with her a broad range of leadership experience in the public and private sectors, as well as a long and storied track record as a champion for equity, opportunity, and representation," Apple said.VIDEO4:5204:52Apple will lead tech again in 2021, says Gene MunsterSquawk Box

2021/01/14, VIDEO3:4403:44Harlem Capital receives $10 million as part of Apple diversity pushSquawk AlleyEarly-stage venture capital firm Harlem Capital will receive a $10 million investment as part of Apple's diversity push.Apple announced the investment on Wednesday as part of its plan to allocate $100 million to address racial equity and justice.CEO Tim Cook originally announced the Racial Equity and Justice Initiative in June as one of a number of corporate reactions to civil unrest following the killings of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor.The funding will be coming over the next two decades and help Harlem Capital with its goal of investing in 1,000 diverse-led businesses in 20 years."We're always trying to get capital in the hands of people in proportion to the population," said Jarrid Tingle, managing partner at Harlem Capital, in an interview on CNBC's "Squawk Alley" on Thursday.The firm currently holds 21 investments across 11 cities and nine industries. Forty-three percent of the companies are exclusively women-led, while 47% are led by Black or Latino CEOs.Companies in the firm's portfolio include Black media company Blavity and government affairs platform GovPredict.The firm previously received a portion of PayPal's $50 million investment to address the venture capital funding gap facing Black and Latino entrepreneurs.According to a 2020 Crunchbase Diversity Spotlight report, Black and Latino founders represented only 2.6% of the total $87.3 billion in funding toward the end of 2020, despite the dollar amounts increasing every year.Tingle, however, remained optimistic that the tide is turning."The time will come," Tingle said. "The challenge is they weren't really getting these opportunities until about 2013 or 2014, so they never had the opportunity to get to the point where they would go public."While some experts point to a pipeline problem, Tingle said that is not something he faced in identifying diverse-led companies. When Harlem Capital launched an investment search, they found 200 women-, Black- and Latino-led companies that had independently raised over $1 million."Our bet at Harlem Capital is that backing these entrepreneurs will help them build companies, generate wealth, hire diverse people and then reinvest when they're successful, and that is happening," said Tingle. "But we also believe you can't be what you don't see."VIDEO29:2929:29The year ahead: VCs weigh in on megadeals, red-hot IPO market, and a reckoning with lack of diversityCNBC Disruptor 50

2020/12/15, In this articleAAPLFBApple CEO Tim Cook (l) and Mark Zuckerberg, CEO and founder of Facebook.Getty Images (L) | Reuters (R)Earlier this week, Apple updated its App Store to show information about what kinds of user data various apps collect.One app's privacy label is getting a lot of attention: Facebook. On Apple's App Store, the Facebook app listing now includes a several pages detailing exactly what user data the app collects and what it uses it for.Facebook's lengthy label, which could make privacy-sensitive users reconsider using the app, is an example of why the two Silicon Valley giants have engaged in a war of words over the past five years: Facebook and Apple have two different business models, and they are increasingly coming in conflict.Apple is a consumer hardware company that makes money by selling phones, computers, and accessories for premium prices. In recent years, it's been adding privacy features to make it harder for other companies to collect user data, which it markets as a primary reason to pick Apple products over those from competitors.Facebook is an advertising company which makes money by harvesting detailed information about users in order to help advertisers target and tailor their messages for audiences who are most likely to respond.VIDEO4:0804:08Facebook wants to take Apple down with it, says antitrust expertSquawk AlleySome of Facebook's complaints with Apple don't relate to these privacy labels — they're over other conflicts between the two companies, such as Apple's 30% cut of in-app purchases, and upcoming changes to how apps can access device IDs for targeting ads.But the conflict between the two companies is ultimately about user targeting, as shown by this exchange from November:"Facebook executives have made clear their intent is to collect as much data as possible across both first and third party products to develop and monetize detailed profiles of their users, and this disregard for user privacy continues to expand to include more of their products," Apple's global head of privacy, Jane Horvath, said in a letter to human rights groups.Facebook shot back later that day in a statement that said that Apple was using its power to disadvantage its competitors. "They claim it's about privacy, but it's about profit." Facebook's app and website have controls that help users set their privacy settings, Facebook said, and Apple's labels ignore important context of how it uses data to run its services.Facebook subsidiary WhatApp said to Axios last week that Apple's labels are anti-competitive because some of Apple's own apps like Messages are pre-installed on iPhones, and don't have store listings or similar labels. (Apple publishes how its preinstalled apps use user data on a support page on its website.)Facebook's labelA quick look at the privacy labels shows why privacy-conscious users might hesitate to download the app.Two sets of big icons on the download page provide an overview of the data the app collects, including "data used to track you," and "data linked to you" -- two alarming-sounding, if not terribly precise, descriptions:Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsScreenshotThe icons on the Facebook app listing show that the app uses contact info, identifiers, and other data to "track you," or to help target ads on other apps and websites that Facebook doesn't own.Facebook also collects a variety of data linked to your identity, according to its privacy label, including health and fitness data, purchases, location, and contacts.If users tap "See Details," they'll get a scary-looking accounting of what exact user data Facebook collects, and what it uses it for. That page reveals that Facebook uses "other financial information" and user content to target ads and collects "sensitive info" for its own analytics.But perhaps the most memorable part of Facebook's privacy label detail page is how long it is — on the phone, it takes up several screens. It leaves a very strong impression that Facebook is collecting a massive hoard of data about its billions of users.

2020/12/15, In this articleAAPLApple CEO Tim Cook reveals the new iPhone 12.SourceApple shares rose 5% on Tuesday after Japanese news outlet Nikkei said iPhone production is set to rise by 30% in the first half of 2021.Apple is planning to build up to 96 million iPhones between January and June of 2021, according to anonymous sources cited by Nikkei. That includes the new 5G compatible iPhone 12 models, the iPhone 11 and iPhone SE.Apple now intends to produce up to 230 million iPhones in 2021, according to Nikkei's report. That's 20% more than it made in 2020, Nikkei said. Apple no longer discloses how many phones it sells in its earnings reports.The report said demand for the iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Pro is stronger than expected, according to a supplier, but that iPhone 12 mini demand is "sluggish."Wedbush analysts Daniel Ives and Strecker Backe said in a note on Tuesday that the Nikkei article was "another bullish sign of iPhone 12 demand" and supported the so-called "supercycle thesis" which argues many people with older iPhones re ready for upgrades and will buy the new iPhones."Based on lead times on the Apple website as well as our checks, we believe pre-orders tracked more than 2x its predecessor iPhone 11 thus far and is a robust start out of the gates for Cupertino on this flagship supercycle product," the analysts said.The analysts estimate that 20% of iPhone upgrades would come from China in the coming year and said that the country is a "key ingredient in Apple's recipe for success."VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the Street

2021/01/13, General Motors Chairman & CEO Mary Barra (L) and President of General Motors China Matt Tsien attend a press conference in Shanghai, China September 15, 2017.Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2020/11/18, In this articleAAPLFortniteSource: PlayStationEpic Games and Spotify responded on Tuesday to Apple's decision to cut App Store fees to 15% for developers who make less than $1 million in annual net sales from the App Store.In short: They're not impressed. App development is a winner-take-most business, and the top 1% most popular publishers on Apple and Google's stores account for about 93% of sales, according to a 2019 estimate from app analytics firm Sensor Tower. Epic and Spotify, who are likely in that top 1% category, view Apple's move as an attempt to blunt criticism while doing little to address the underlying problem of unfair pricing for developers."This would be something to celebrate were it not a calculated move by Apple to divide app creators and preserve their monopoly on stores and payments, again breaking the promise of treating all developers equally," Epic CEO Tim Sweeney said on Tuesday."By giving special 15% terms to select robber barons like Amazon, and now also to small indies, Apple is hoping to remove enough critics that they can get away with their blockade on competition and 30% tax on most in-app purchases."Sweeney said Android and iOS need to open up to competition for payments to level the playing field among developers and service providers."Apple's anti-competitive behavior threatens all developers on iOS, and this latest move further demonstrates that their App Store policies are arbitrary and capricious," Spotify said. "We hope that regulators will ignore Apple's 'window dressing' and act with urgency to protect consumer choice, ensure fair competition, and create a level playing field for all."Epic Games and Spotify are among the most vocal Apple critics. Epic sued Apple earlier this year after the game developer released a version of Fortnite that allowed users to skip Apple's in-app payment platform, forgoing Apple's 30% cut, was banned from the App Store.Spotify has criticized Apple's practice and teamed up with Epic Games, Match Group and other developers to create a nonprofit named "The Coalition for App Fairness" that is fighting for legal action against Apple's in-app commission fees. It also responded to Apple's changes on Tuesday.A 'symbolic gesture'The Coalition for App Fairness said that Apple's change was a "symbolic gesture" in a tweet."$1,000,001 in revenue is an arbitrary benchmark. Subtract 30% to Apple, 20% to marketing, 30% to taxes and you're left with enough to possibly build and maintain the product — but forget about paying your employees or making a profit."David Heinemeier Hansson, co-founder and CTO of Basecamp, a project management and team communications app, also spoke out on Tuesday."Apple is a $2 trillion company that sells $1,000 phones to consumers that bought those devices and want to use the best apps they can get access to," Heinemeier Hansson said on CNBC's Squawk Alley on Tuesday. "Apple needs to flip this around and look at this and say 'hey hey, these developers are selling our phones, we should be paying them.'" He added Apple shouldn't be "shaking down" developers.Andy Yen, founder and CEO of the ProtonMail email app said the change is positive but is a "thinly disguised attempt to escape regularly scrutiny.""It is ironic that Apple, a $2 trillion company, considers that any company making more than $1 million is making way too much money and needs to pay higher fees," Yen said."What small businesses need is not a slightly cheaper monopoly, but a real choice of payment methods in the App Store. It is only through allowing real competition in app store payments that truly competitive fees (not 30% nor 15%) can be assured," he added.The App Association, an industry group that represents app developers, welcomed the policy change."Today's announcement by Apple marks an important moment in the evolution of the app economy recognizing the crucial role small business like our members play in the growth and innovation of the app marketplace," App Association president Morgan Reed said in a statement.The House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust released a report in October that said Apple has "monopoly power" over software distribution on iPhones but also said Apple's ecosystem has produced benefits to both consumers and developers.Apple responded to that report and said it does not have a dominant market share in any category where it does business.VIDEO4:2804:28Growing revolt against Apple?The ExchangeSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/01/25, CEO of Tesla Motors Elon Musk.Brendan McDermid | ReutersHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Monday:

2021/01/24, VIDEO3:3803:38Stocks open mixed as Wall Street tries to decide which trend to followSquawk on the StreetThe S&P 500 erased earlier losses and rose slightly to a record on Monday as investors prepared for a busy week of earnings featuring reports from the largest tech companies. The broad equity benchmark closed the volatile day 0.4% higher at a new record close of 3,855.36. The S&P 500 fell 1.2% at its low of the day. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite gained 0.7% to reach a fresh closing high of 13,635.99. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, less susceptible to changes in technology shares, dipped 36.98 points, or 0.1%, to 30,960.00. At its session low, the 30-stock benchmark dropped more than 400 points. This coming week, 13 Dow components and 111 S&P 500 companies are set to report earnings. Among the quarterly reports on deck include those from Apple, Microsoft, Netflix, Tesla, McDonald's, Honeywell, Caterpillar and Boeing.Apple shares gained 2.8% to an all-time high before its quarterly report Wednesday after the bell. Tesla, which also reports Wednesday, popped 4% to hit a record."The Street is anticipating robust results from Apple on Wednesday after the bell with Cupertino expected to handily beat Street estimates across the board," wrote Dan Ives of Wedbush, who raised his 12-month price target on Monday to $175. "While the Street is forecasting roughly 220 million iPhone units [for 2021], we believe based on the current trajectory and in a bull case Cupertino has potential to sell north of 240 million units."Highly speculative action in stocks like GameStop was unnerving some investors, causing worry that parts of the market had detached from fundamentals and could cause the broader market to take a hit when the mania ends.Shares of the brick-and-mortar video-game retailer soared more than 140% to top $150 at one point Monday as a slew of retail investors active in online chat rooms aimed to squeeze out short sellers. GameStop briefly turned negative in wild trading before closing 18% higher. Other heavily shorted names, including Bed Bath & Beyond, also jumped higher on Monday amid the buying frenzy."Signs of excess continue to concern investors, with markets at near-record highs on a variety of valuation metrics," said Mark Hackett, Nationwide's chief of investment research. "Other signs of extreme optimism include put-call ratios, credit spreads and momentum indicators."  Companies kicked off the earnings season on a strong note. Of the S&P 500 components that have already reported earnings, 73% have beaten on both sales and EPS, according to data from Bank of America. The firm said this is tracking similar to last quarter when the number of companies beating hit a record.Wall Street was coming off a winning week amid the strength in the technology sector. The Dow and the S&P 500 gained 0.6% and 1.9%, respectively. The Nasdaq advanced 4.19% last week for its best week since November as shares of Big Tech names pushed the index to a record.The move higher came as President Joe Biden tries to push through a $1.9 trillion stimulus program that many congressional Republicans oppose. The fiscal aid includes direct checks to millions of Americans, aid to state and local governments, funding for Covid vaccines and testing, a boost to the minimum wage and enhanced unemployment benefits, among other things.The number of coronavirus cases continues to tick up in the U.S. and abroad, but many economists are forecasting a return to growth later this year."We continue to expect that a reduction in virus risk due to mass vaccination coupled with fiscal support for consumer spending will lead to a mid-year consumption boom and very strong growth in 2021," Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs, said in a note to clients over the weekend.However, the firm noted that while risks like insufficient fiscal aid look now look less likely, other risks remain. Hatzius cited consumers remaining more cautious than expected as well as the evolution of a vaccine-resistant virus strain as potential future headwinds for the market.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/11/18, Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) at the San Jose Convention Center in San Jose, California on Monday, June 4, 2018.Josh Edelson | AFP | Getty ImagesApple said Wednesday it will cut its App Store commission rate to 15% for software developers with less than $1 million in annual net sales on its platform.Apple currently takes a 30% commission from the total price of paid apps and in-app purchases from the App Store. For some small app makers, the new policy could cut the amount that they pay Apple in half.Apple says the App Store Small Business Program will begin Jan. 1 and that developers who qualify will receive reduced App Store fees for paid app and in-app purchases. New developers who haven't published on the App Store before will also qualify for the lower, 15% commission fee.The move is an olive branch from Apple as lawmakers around the world are increasingly focusing on its business practices for the App Store, which is the only way for most people to install software on an iPhone or iPad. A report from the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust published in October says Apple generates "supra-normal profits" from the App Store.The new program is for small developers who make less than $1 million per year across all their apps on Apple's App Store, after Apple's fees. Once developers pass that threshold, they'll be billed at the standard 30% rate, Apple said. If they later fall under $1 million in sales for a calendar year, the lower commission can be restored. Apple said it will reveal more details about the terms of the reduced commissions next month.Wednesday's announcement is separate from Apple's lower 15% fee on the second year of subscriptions billed through the App Store, which applies to big companies as well and was implemented in 2016.Apple said last month in an annual filing with the SEC that reducing its App Store commission rate could hurt the company's financial results. App Store revenue is a major part of Apple's services business, which generated $14.55 billion in the quarter ended in September, accounting for 22% of the company's revenue for the period.But Apple will still charge a 30% fee for in-app purchases for top grossing apps, meaning the impact to Apple's financials could be minimal. In addition, the maximum discount for each publisher is capped, because the commission goes back to 30% after sales after Apple's fees cross $1 million.Apple says the App Store offers about 1.8 million apps, but apps are a winner-take-most business. The top 1% of app publishers generate 93% of the revenue across the App Store and Google's Play Store, according to a 2019 estimate from app analytics firm Sensor Tower.The change will help small companies offering virtual classes or sessions through an app, which have fixed costs like the instructor's time and have grown in importance during the Covid-19 pandemic. In a separate post on its website, Apple highlighted a swimming coach app, a coding app for children, and an indie game as businesses that could benefit from the policy change.Apple doesn't charge a commission on physical goods purchased through apps, like booking an in-person class or an Uber. But it considers other classes or events held online, like a virtual yoga session, to be digital goods and subject to the commission fee. It suspended these fees through the end of the year after a noisy public dispute with Facebook.The changes are unlikely to mollify Facebook or Fortnite maker Epic Games, which is embroiled in a legal battle with Apple over the company's 30% fee and related practices. One estimate from August suggested that Epic Games has grossed over $1.2 billion on the App Store to date, making it ineligible for the reduced commission.Spotify, which has also challenged Apple's App Store fees, responded to the change on Tuesday."Apple's anti-competitive behavior threatens all developers on iOS, and this latest move further demonstrates that their App Store policies are arbitrary and capricious," Spotify said."While we find their fees to be excessive and discriminatory, Apple's tying of its own payment system to the App Store and the communications restrictions it uses to punish developers who choose not to use it, put apps like Spotify at a significant disadvantage to their own competing service. Ensuring that the market remains competitive is a critical task. We hope that regulators will ignore Apple's 'window dressing' and act with urgency to protect consumer choice, ensure fair competition, and create a level playing field for all."

2020/11/10, In this articleAAPLVIDEO1:1501:15Apple unveils new, in-house 'M1' chip, MacBook Air and moreThe ExchangeApple announced three new Mac computers on Tuesday: a MacBook Air, a 13-inch MacBook Pro, and a Mac Mini. They essentially look the same as their predecessors.What's new this time is the chip that runs them. Now they're powered by Apple's M1 chip instead of Intel processors. Tuesday's announcement marks the end of a 15-year run where Intel processors powered Apple's laptops and desktops, and a big shift for the semiconductor industry.Apple is the fourth-largest PC maker measured by shipments, according to a Gartner estimate, so its plan to use its own chips in its entire lineup of laptops and desktops, first announced in June, is a blow for Intel."We believe Intel-powered PCs—like those based on 11th Gen Intel Core mobile processors—provide global customers the best experience in the areas they value most, as well as the most open platform for developers," Intel said in a statement.Apple's chips are based on ARM technology, as opposed to the x86 architecture that Intel's chips use. ARM was originally designed for mobile devices, and chips built with ARM designs are consistently more efficient, leading to longer battery life. On a laptop, that could mean several extra hours away from the plug.But that's only one reason why Apple is switching out the brains of its laptops. Here's a rundown of why Apple made the move:Apple's strategy of owning core technologies. Apple CEO Tim Cook has frequently said that the company has a "long-term strategy of owning and controlling the primary technologies behind the products we make."For a computer hardware company, there are few technologies less essential than the silicon processors that the machines run on.Apple has invested heavily in its silicon department, including major purchases, starting with a $278 million purchase of P. A. Semi in 2008, which started the department, and most recently, $1 billion for part of Intel's modem business in 2019. It's been building its own A-series chips for iPhones, iPads, and Apple Watches since 2010. Now it's essentially bringing the same technology to laptops and desktops, meaning that all Apple computers basically run on the same framework."Apple Silicon is totally in keeping with the strategic goal of Apple to really control an entire stack," CCS Insight research director Wayne Lam said. "Now in computing, they own everything from silicon to the software to how the user moves the mouse around, so it's tremendously integrated."Controlling its own technologies helps Apple integrate its products more deeply. It also means that it runs its own schedule — chips take 3 years to develop, Apple senior vice president Johny Srouji said last year — and has more control over costs."Apple thinks they can innovate faster than the standard business model of Intel or Qualcomm doing the development on chips and then they build on top of it," Lam said.Intel is falling behind in manufacturing. Apple proudly said on Tuesday that the M1 chip in the new Macs uses 5-nanometer transistors."Five-nanometer is the leading edge of process technology right now and there are only a few products out at this point," Gartner research director Jon Erensen said. Currently, Intel is shipping chips with 10-nanometer transistors.In general, the more transistors a chipmaker can fit into the same space, the more efficient the chip is. Currently, Intel ships chips only with 10-nanometer transistors.Intel famously controls its own factories, called "fabs," around the world, compared to Apple, which contracts with companies in Asia to manufacture chips to its own specifications. But Apple's chip manufacturing partner, TSMC, can make 5-nanometer chips while Intel can't."Intel's had some challenges over the last couple of years on the manufacturing side. And I think those challenges have opened a window or opportunity for ARM-based designs for come in. Apple is one of the the best ARM-based processor designers out there,"  Erensen said.Earlier this year, Intel CEO Bob Swan said that it was considering outsourcing its manufacturing, like what Apple does."With the challenges that Intel has had moving to 10-nanometer and 7-nanometer while foundries like TSMC and Samsung have pushed more aggressively, it's taken one of Intel's key advantages and leveled the playing field a bit," Erensen said.More battery life, potentially better performance, and laptops that work like phones. Apple says that the M1 Macs are better products than the older models, mainly because Apple claims its chips enbable better performance and longer battery life than it could achieve using Intel's chips.It's clear that the new Macs will have improved battery life. Apple's previous chips have been used in smartphones and tablets, which have significantly smaller batteries.During Apple's launch event on Tuesday, the company emphasized how it mainly evaluates chips on performance per watt, not raw performance.On the entry-level MacBook Air, Apple says that it can manage 15 hours of web browsing on one charge, nearly 30% more than the advertised 10 to 11 hour battery life of the previous Intel-based model.The new Macs also work more like phones or tablets, Apple said, with features like the ability to wake up from sleep instantly. The new M1 Macs can even run iPhone apps, if the developer takes a few steps to make them available on Apple's App Store.However, analysts warn that Apple's performance claims, like that it is faster than comparable PCs, will need to be tested once the computers hit shelves next week."Performance of the new M1 chip is nearly impossible to gauge as the company didn't provide any detailed substantiation around any of the performance claims made," Moor Insights founder Patrick Moorhead said.Apple did not stop selling Intel laptops on Tuesday, and its highest-end laptops are still Intel-based, suggesting that there are still performance advantages to some Intel chips.VIDEO3:0103:01What Apple's new 'M1' chip could mean for the rest of the chip industryPower Lunch

2020/12/22, In this articleTSLACEO of Tesla Motors Elon Musk.Brendan McDermid | ReutersLONDON —Tesla stock is too expensive and in bubble territory compared with its performance, according to Vitali Kalesnik, partner and head of research in Europe at Research Affiliates. "While Tesla is a great company, Tesla stock has very strong signs of being overpriced," Kalesnik told CNBC's "Squawk Box Europe" on Tuesday, hot on the heels of a report that Apple is once again planning to produce its own electric car with self-driving technology.Tesla's share price skidded nearly 6.5% on Monday. In Tuesday's premarket, it was trading at $653.25, up 0.5%. Its current market value is $616 billion, which is more than the nine largest automakers combined.Kalesnik believes Tesla's share price is too high given its sales, car production numbers and other fundamentals. "When we're looking at the types of assumptions that we need to justify these valuations, one would need very, very aggressive assumptions," he said.Tesla's margins are "largely on par" with the rest of the industry and Kalesnik said that means "Tesla's current valuation is in the bubble territory."VIDEO2:5002:50Tesla stock has 'very strong signs' of being overpriced: ResearcherSquawk Box EuropeTesla's share price has increased by over 650% in 2020 with several key events helping to lift the company's stock. In May, Tesla started production at its California factory following a pandemic-related shutdown and legal battle with the state. In July, Tesla posted its fourth straight quarter of profit and beat delivery estimates. Shares also got a boost at the end of the summer when Tesla announced its first ever stock split.Tesla shares soared to a record high after the electric car maker announced it was debuting on the S&P 500, a stock market index that measures the performance of 500 large companies listed on stock exchanges in the U.S."When it's included into the S&P 500, investors have to buy it at a very high price, and that is likely to produce pretty bad consequences to the investors," said Kalesnik.On its S&P debut day, Tesla shares tumbled Monday from a record high in the previous session.Competition from Apple?Optimism for Tesla stock was tempered after Reuters reported Apple is planning to start producing an electric passenger vehicle by 2024. New technology in the Apple car could greatly reduce the cost of battery production and extend its range, Reuters reported. Apple declined to comment.While an Apple car could be several years away, other companies are already producing significant numbers of EVs. But Kalesnik believes investors don't fully appreciate that there is competition in the EV market."Tesla does have some advantages in the EV market and many of its competitors admit it," Kalesnik said. "Having said that, its competitors have significantly larger cap expending. They are putting [together] very aggressive, multibillion dollar plans to enter into the market. Volkswagen is already producing. Toyota has serious plans, and recently it came out with its advances in the solid-state battery, which is supposed to revolutionize the EV industry."Despite his concerns, Kalesnik said he would not recommend shorting Tesla's stock. "The bull market for Tesla can outlast your capital and your appetite for the shorts," he said. "But given the volatility, you can burn very significantly." 

2020/12/21, In this articleAAPLTRI-CAThe Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max LiDAR camera is unveiled.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesTwo companies that make lidar sensors saw their stocks soar on Monday after Reuters reported on hat Apple is aiming to start production of an Apple-branded car for consumers as soon as 2024.Velodyne stock rose nearly 23% on Monday. Luminar rose over 27%.Lidar is a core component for self-driving cars that allows their computers to take a 3D image of the world around them. The sensors measure the range or velocity of objects using a process that is similar to radar -- they bounce lasers off objects and when the light returns, the sensors can calculate how far away the object is and if it's moving.Self-driving car companies like Alphabet's Waymo and GM's Cruise make heavy use of lidar in their self-driving systems. Apple has decided to use outside partners for parts of its self-driving system, including lidar sensors, according to the report.VIDEO2:5102:51Apple reportedly targets self-driving electric car production in 2024AutosHowever, the report does not name any prospective lidar suppliers to Apple, and also also notes that Apple could instead decide to use lidar sensors that it designed. Newer iPhones and iPads come with an Apple-designed lidar sensor in their camera modules, although this sensor would likely have to be modified for use on a vehicle.Apple declined to comment on the report.Apple has tested self-driving cars in California with a safety driver behind the wheel who can take over. An early version of those vehicles had visible lidar sensors mounted on the top, but a subsequent version spotted on California streets hid the sensors inside a casing. Apple also runs a fleet of vehicles that capture street-level imagery for Apple Maps, and those cars are also equipped with lidar sensors.VIDEO2:5502:55Luminar CEO Austin Russell on potential Apple carSquawk AlleyA recent wave of excitement around electric and self-driving cars has driven up stock prices in the sector. Tesla's stock is up 655% year-to-date, as of Monday's close.Lidar companies have benefited from investor excitement.Velodyne went public through a SPAC in September. At the time, it said it recorded a net loss of $67.2 million on revenue of $101.4 million in 2019. In November, it said it sold 2,235 sensor units in the most recent quarter, at an average selling price of $5,600.Luminar went public through a SPAC earlier this month, and it's up over 172% since then. It's a smaller company focused on developing technology, and lost $94.7 million in 2019 on revenue of $12.6 million.

2020/12/14, Heinrich van den Berg | Getty ImagesApple's Siri assistant can now quack like a duck if you ask it nicely.To try it out, users have to update to iOS 14.3, the newest version of the iPhone operating system, and say, "Hey Siri, what does a duck sound like?" In response, Siri will play the natural call of a ruddy duck.On Monday, Siri started to play short audio clips in response to questions about what something sounds like. Sounds now built into the system include animals, instruments, and vehicles, and Apple says there are hundreds of options. On an iPhone or iPad, Siri also brings up a picture of the animal and a link to more information from Wikipedia.Here's some examples of what you can ask, via Apple:"Hey Siri, what does a humpback whale sound like?""Hey Siri, what does a toy poodle sound like?"Hey Siri, what does a harp sound like?""Hey Siri, what do firetrucks sound like?"CNBC also tried it out with a few other animals, including a domestic cat, a lion, a bald eagle, and, in an example of how specific it can get, a kookaburra, a type of bird which sounds like somebody laughing. Siri also played several car sounds, a train whistle, and a short sample of a theremin as well.If you ask "what does the fox say?", Siri may simply quote the song that became a YouTube hit in 2013. But asking "what does a fox sound like" brings up an actual call from an arctic fox, which sounds like someone whooping.The audio Siri plays is realistic as opposed to exaggerated or cartoon-like.Funny easter eggs like this are a common feature for voice assistants like Siri. They increase engagement, especially with children. Apple's assistant has had the ability to crack jokes since it was first introduced. Amazon's Alexa assistant also tells jokes. Last year, Amazon researchers published a paper about how they used machine learning to make Alexa's jokes funnier.The new feature is part of iOS 14.3, which introduced privacy labels on the App Store, supports the Fitness+ workout service, and fixed a bug related to text message notifications, according to Apple.

2020/12/01, Andy Jassy, chief executive officer of web services at Amazon.com Inc., speaks during the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Summit in San Francisco on April 19, 2017.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon's cloud division on Tuesday announced the availability of new virtual computing instances for software developers that run Apple's MacOS operating system, representing an alternative to Microsoft Windows and open-source Linux.Amazon Web Services controls the cloud infrastructure market, and it has sought to keep its lead against the likes of Google and Microsoft in part by regularly adding to its wide assortment of tools. No major cloud provider to date has brought about a means to rent a remote computing infrastructure with MacOS from their clouds. As a result, at least initially, Amazon has an advantage that can attract customers to AWS, which is the main source of Amazon's operating income.Rather than run MacOS on its standard computer servers, AWS is drawing on Apple's Mac Mini computers, featuring Intel Core i7 chips, to deliver EC2 virtual-computing instances with MacOS, according to a statement. The instances run on bare metal, meaning that a developer will get the full power of a Mac, rather than virtual machines, which deliver small virtual slices of physical computers, a spokesperson told CNBC on Monday. Instances of Mac Minis feature Apple's M1 Arm-based chips will arrive in 2021, AWS said in a blog post.Developers can put early versions of their applications on the instances to run necessary tests before rolling out updates to the end users. The instances provide a way to remotely use Mac-specific software such as the Xcode integrated development environment. Through Xcode, developers can upload apps to Apple's App Store. Developers can alternatively do that with existing Mac computers, or by relying on Mac specialists such as MacStadium.Intuit, a major AWS customer, has started using the new Mac instances, and Amazon's Ring subsidiary plans to use them. The instances are available from five of AWS' 24 data center regions located around the world, according to the statement.Amazon and Apple have a close relationship. Apple's iCloud services rely on AWS. As of last year Apple was spending over $30 million on AWS. The two companies started working closely on developing EC2 instances with MacOS about a year ago, said Dave Brown, vice president for EC2 at AWS, said during a press session. AWS is buying Mac Minis from Apple to provide the Mac instances, the spokesperson said.AWS' annual Reinvent conference, normally a gathering of customers, software makers and employees in Las Vegas, kicked off Monday as an online event because of the coronavirus pandemic.Correction: This article has been updated to include the correct number of data center regions that AWS operates.WATCH: Cloud is one of the major digital trends accelerated by Covid, Atos CEO saysVIDEO4:0304:03Cloud is one of the major digital trends accelerated by Covid, Atos CEO saysSquawk Box Europe

2020/12/08, In this articleWDP-BEWEB-BEDeMarcus Ware #94 of the Dallas Cowboys celebrates after a big play against the Miami Dolphins at Cowboys Stadium on November 24, 2011 in Arlington, Texas. The Cowboys defeated the Dolphins 20 to 19.Wesley Hitt | Getty ImagesMobile fitness applications are thriving as Covid-19 continues its assault on in-person activities like gatherings at gyms, and former National Football League linebacker DeMarcus Ware just launched his own called Driven to Win (D2W.)The app launched on Wednesday and gives users the training style of a professional athlete "in the palm of your hands," he said. A subscription to the app starts at $14.99 per month.Subscribers will be able to work out with Ware and other NFL athletes beside them in the app as they do the exercises. "You're not just looking at it and propping it up; you actually have a subject beside you doing the exercises with you," he said.In an interview with CNBC last week, Ware discussed Wednesday's app launch and how Apple developers helped him build it. It's first available for Apple devices but is scheduled to be released on Android devices by the end of the first quarter.Flights to AppleThe former Dallas Cowboys and Denver Broncos linebacker said he started going to Apple's headquarters in 2019 to study with its app developers, taking nine trips in total.Ware, who majored in computer science at Troy University, said he was familiar with how to code but needed more assistance on software concepts before he developed D2W."Their support was monumental on what I should and shouldn't do," Ware said of Apple developers. "It's not one of those things to where it's me partnering and saying, 'Hey, this is my name.' This is a product that I helped develop."Ware said some of the products he witnessed during his time at Apple are "years ahead of our time" and that, at times, he felt like he was in a maze. "Everything looks the same. When I walked in there, it was so many times that I got lost in that building."Former NFL linebacker DeMarcus Ware announcing the launch of Driven To Win (D2W), a new fitness app available for download on the App Store.Source: Driven To WinChanging the gameWare, 38, played 12 seasons in the NFL, nine of which he played with the Cowboys. He helped the Broncos win the 2015 Super Bowl. He retired following the 2016 season after four neck and back surgeries.Describing the pain of in his early days of retirement, Ware said, "I couldn't walk." He recovered from the surgeries in 2018 and started creating the app that took two years to develop.After learning from Apple and becoming a certified trainer, Ware partnered with Calvin Carter, the founder and CEO of developer Bottle Rocket, to create D2W.Bottle Rocket has developed mobile apps for companies like Southwest, Capital One, and its clients include CNBC parent company, NBCUniversal, Disney, and Marriott.Ware said he built a room with more than 300 cameras to film himself doing more than 700 exercises for the app. D2W can create different "warmups, activations, and a recovery program that is specifically for the user.""It's using artificial intelligence," Ware said. "The more you use it, the smarter it gets, and the more advanced it grows with you as go along the process. It's like having a real trainer in your hand."Ware said D2W has augmented reality capabilities that shows enhanced 3-D models and detailed instructions of "how you should do the exercise, the tempos and what other variables you need whether it's how much weight or time and attention you need on that muscle."Ware added a voice capture feature that syncs with the Apple Watch and is able to suggest workout levels and rest periods based on a user's breathing. He said D2W provides a "personalized experience" similar to an actual real-life trainer."The personalized engagement is one of the biggest keys that I was trying to get out of this," Ware said. "Because when you go to a trainer, you're getting the personalized engagement that keeps you coming back. I want that same thing for this app."Former Bronco DeMarcus Ware on the sidelines before the game as the Denver Broncos played the Cleveland Browns at Broncos Stadium at Mile High.Joe Amon | Denver Post | Getty ImagesSeeking investorsDriven to Win has three subscription options: $14.99 per month, $74.99 for six months, or $99.99 for the entire year. Ware said he wants to add more features to the app in 2021.He's also seeking a Series B funding round for roughly $30 million for expansion options, eyeing "acquisitions and other pieces of tech" as smaller firms weakened by Covid-19 could be available to acquire.  "I'm trying to shake up the fitness space with something different that is not the same content," Ware said.Asked his thoughts on his former team, the Cowboys, who have struggled under new coach Mike McCarthy, Ware said the pandemic damaged his attempt to establish a new culture."They didn't have a big enough opportunity to have that offseason because usually in the offseason, you establish your identity," Ware said. "They didn't get their identity built like it should because they didn't have the time."Ware told CNBC he thinks the Kansas City Chiefs and Seattle Seahawks will make it to Super Bowl LV on Feb. 7."For some reason, I'm on those Seattle Seahawks," Ware said, picking Seattle to win. "When Russell Wilson gets to the end of the season, he's a hard man to beat."VIDEO5:0205:02Grammy-Award winner Ciara, NFL QB Russell Wilson and fmr. Lululemon CEO launch fashion businessClosing Bell

2020/12/01, Andy Jassy, chief executive officer of web services at Amazon.com Inc., speaks during the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Summit in San Francisco on April 19, 2017.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon's cloud division on Tuesday announced the availability of new virtual computing instances for software developers that run Apple's MacOS operating system, representing an alternative to Microsoft Windows and open-source Linux.Amazon Web Services controls the cloud infrastructure market, and it has sought to keep its lead against the likes of Google and Microsoft in part by regularly adding to its wide assortment of tools. No major cloud provider to date has brought about a means to rent a remote computing infrastructure with MacOS from their clouds. As a result, at least initially, Amazon has an advantage that can attract customers to AWS, which is the main source of Amazon's operating income.Rather than run MacOS on its standard computer servers, AWS is drawing on Apple's Mac Mini computers, featuring Intel Core i7 chips, to deliver EC2 virtual-computing instances with MacOS, according to a statement. The instances run on bare metal, meaning that a developer will get the full power of a Mac, rather than virtual machines, which deliver small virtual slices of physical computers, a spokesperson told CNBC on Monday. Instances of Mac Minis feature Apple's M1 Arm-based chips will arrive in 2021, AWS said in a blog post.Developers can put early versions of their applications on the instances to run necessary tests before rolling out updates to the end users. The instances provide a way to remotely use Mac-specific software such as the Xcode integrated development environment. Through Xcode, developers can upload apps to Apple's App Store. Developers can alternatively do that with existing Mac computers, or by relying on Mac specialists such as MacStadium.Intuit, a major AWS customer, has started using the new Mac instances, and Amazon's Ring subsidiary plans to use them. The instances are available from five of AWS' 24 data center regions located around the world, according to the statement.Amazon and Apple have a close relationship. Apple's iCloud services rely on AWS. As of last year Apple was spending over $30 million on AWS. The two companies started working closely on developing EC2 instances with MacOS about a year ago, said Dave Brown, vice president for EC2 at AWS, said during a press session. AWS is buying Mac Minis from Apple to provide the Mac instances, the spokesperson said.AWS' annual Reinvent conference, normally a gathering of customers, software makers and employees in Las Vegas, kicked off Monday as an online event because of the coronavirus pandemic.Correction: This article has been updated to include the correct number of data center regions that AWS operates.WATCH: Cloud is one of the major digital trends accelerated by Covid, Atos CEO saysVIDEO4:0304:03Cloud is one of the major digital trends accelerated by Covid, Atos CEO saysSquawk Box Europe

2021/01/21, Tim Cook at Apple EventSource: AppleHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2021/01/06, In this articleAAPLApple CEO Tim Cook speaks at the TIME 100 Summit on April 23, 2019 in New York City.Spencer Platt | Getty ImagesApple CEO Tim Cook said on Wednesday that the United States must complete the transition to a Biden administration, and that rioters who participated in an "insurrection" in Washington D.C. must be held responsible. "Today marks a sad and shameful chapter in our nation's history. Those responsible for this insurrection should be held to account, and we must complete the transition to President-elect Biden's administration. It's especially when they are challenged that our ideals matter most," Cook tweeted.The comments were made in a tweet late in the day that a pro-Trump mob invaded the U.S. Capitol, forcing Congress to suspend proceedings to confirm the election of Joe Biden as president. The tweet is Cook's first public statement on the outcome of the 2020 presidential election. President Donald Trump has called Cook a friend and the two men have had an open line of communication over the past four years. Other business leaders have also condemned the violence on Capitol Hill, including JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, Google CEO Sundar Pichai and the Business Roundtable, a group of major public companies, of which which Apple is a member.

2020/11/12, In this articleAAPLAMZNApple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCApple has a real competitor to the Amazon Echo, and it may provide Apple with yet another growth opportunity.According to eMarketer, 70% of smart speaker owners in the U.S. have an Amazon Echo. Google is largely seen as the nearest competitor to Amazon, followed by companies that build either Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant in their speakers, like Sonos. So far, Apple has largely sat on the sidelines while its competitors ran off with the market.The first HomePod launched in 2018 for $349, which was too expensive for most buyers who could get a similar product, albeit with lower sound quality, for much less. The $99 HomePod Mini is Apple's best shot to take market share away from Amazon.VIDEO3:2403:24Apple CEO Tim Cook kicks off iPhone event with new HomePod Mini revealNews VideosIt's good, but you'll get the most out of it in households that are invested in Apple's ecosystem of software and hardware. Here's what you need to know.What's goodApple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCI love how small the HomePod Mini is. It's slightly larger than a baseball -- far smaller than I expected -- and has a clean mesh design free of any ugly buttons. I tested the black model, which I liked, but it's also available in white.I've placed two around my houses in places where I normally don't like larger speakers, like on coffee tables in the living room or on the side of my desk. I also like that the touch-screen top glows when it's in use and lets you easily adjust the volume with a couple of taps.The sound quality is impressive for its size. Music sounded clear and, if I closed my eyes, often sounded like it was coming out of a larger speaker. It's also good at balancing songs so that you can hear all parts of them, although the bass isn't as pronounced given it doesn't have a dedicated woofer like some similarly priced speakers from Google and Amazon. It sounds on a par with Amazon's $50 Amazon Echo Dot but not as good -- especially in terms of bass -- as the larger $99 Amazon Echo or Google Nest Audio.Apple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCMusic sounds best if you pair the speaker with another HomePod Mini, which puts them in stereo mode so you have true left and right balance. The same is true of other speakers from Amazon and Google, which also allow you to do this. It's also easy to place different HomePod Mini's around the house and play music in different rooms, or the same song in some or all rooms.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsThe HomePod Mini can act as an intercom and send a message to all of your Apple devices.AppleApple packs in a bunch of other fun features. There's an intercom option that lets you broadcast a message to anyone in your family, so long as they have an iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch or their own HomePod Mini. It's useful if you want to tell the whole house dinner is ready, and I like that messages went to my other Apple devices even if I was home or not. You just get a little audio notification on your watch or phone that you can tap and play back, which is great since it won't automatically just play that message if you're in a meeting. The Amazon Echo and Google Nest speakers have similar features.Apple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCI also really like that I can start playing a song on my iPhone and tap the HomePod Mini and it'll start playing on the speaker. Or a song can start on the speaker and I can walk by and transfer it to the iPhone with another tap. Apple will release an update in the coming months that will improve the hand-off experience with vibration and colors so it feels more like a song is moving from one device to another.I like some of the added smarts in the latest HomePod software update, which is also available for the regular HomePod. You can ask for a personal update by saying "Hey Siri, what's my update?" and it'll read off your calendar events, the weather, traffic to your appointments, reminders and then a news briefing. I like that, although Google and Amazon let you do the same thing but let you customize your news source and what the digital assistant reads you.Another new feature called "Web Answers" that displays the results of questions you ask on your phone. So, if you ask something like "show me pictures of Rome" it will show pictures of Rome on your iPhone.I also liked the tie-in with Apple Maps. When I asked the HomePod Mini how long it'll take to get to my in-laws' beach house, CarPlay will recommend directions to that place when I got in the car.I have about a dozen lights and other smart gadgets around my house synced up with Apple Home, the app on iPhones, iPads and Macs that lets you control them with Siri or through an app. The HomePod Mini works well as a hub if you want to control gadgets when you're away from home, and I like that I can just speak to it to turn off my lights at night. But this works just as well on an iPhone or on the iPad/Apple TV, which also work as a Home hub.Apple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCThe real strength of the HomePod Mini is that it taps into lots of Apple's apps on your iPhone, which means iPhone owners will get the most out of it. You can ask Siri to add to your Notes app, for example, set reminders and tasks that sync with your phone, make and receive calls, find your lost iPhone or Apple Watch, send and receive iMessages and get news briefing from the News app. Those apps aren't available for the Google Nest Audio or Alexa, though similar ones are. It's just convenient if you already use them.What's badApple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCWhile you can use other services like Spotify to AirPlay Music to the HomePod, so far only Pandora has added support that lets you set it as the default option instead of Apple Music. So, you can change that setting and just say "Hey Siri, play music by Led Zeppelin" and it'll play from Pandora instead of Apple Music. That's a bummer for folks who pay for Spotify or other services that haven't added this support yet, though. The Amazon Echo and Google Nest Audio offer support for lots of default music services. I wish I could set more apps as the default service on the HomePod Mini.While the HomePod Mini is good for Apple users, and Siri has gotten a lot better in recent years, you can still do more with an Amazon Echo or Google Nest Hub. The Echo lets you buy stuff from Amazon, for example, or control your Amazon Fire TV. I'd like to see Apple add support for controlling the Apple TV from a HomePod Mini by voice, so that I could just ask it to start playing a movie or TV show. But you can't do that.The Google Nest Hub, as you might expect, ties better into Google services like Calendar and Maps, and has a smarter voice assistant since it taps into Google Search and knows a lot more about you if you regularly use Google services.But, if you're like me, you may use Siri or Google Assistant or Alexa to ask the weather or a sports score most of the time, and Siri can do that just fine.At the $99 price point, I also think the Nest Audio and Amazon Echo sound better. As I mentioned earlier, they have larger speakers and dedicated bass, so that's expected. The HomePod Mini sounds better to me than the $50 Amazon Echo Dot, though, which is similarly sized. In any case, if you want better audio than any of those speakers, look at the regular HomePod (now $299) or Sonos speakers that work with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa and support Apple Airplay but not Siri.Should you buy it?Apple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCThe HomePod Mini makes a lot of sense for houses where the whole family is invested in Apple's hardware and software. If you use Apple apps and own an iPhone then, yeah, you'll like what the HomePod offers. It sounds good for the price and I think you'll like it.But if you have a diverse family of people who use lots of devices, or just prefer Amazon or Google services, then the HomePod doesn't make a ton of sense. You'd have competing ecosystems that don't work well together. That's sort of the problem with those whole smart home speaker category in general -- once you buy one product it makes the most sense to sort of just keep buying those so that you can expand on it. And it seems overly costly to switch from any of them to another.If it's purely audio quality you're chasing, I recommend checking out Sonos speakers. I still think they offer the best sound for the price. If you want a better sounding speaker with the Apple tie-in, get the regular HomePod for $299.VIDEO0:4100:41Apple just announced its HomePod mini smart speakerThe ExchangeSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/01/06, Dan Henry, CEO of Green DotSource: Green DotGreen Dot, a fintech player that's often overlooked compared with bigger rivals PayPal and Square, has been on a tear lately, with its stock climbing 140% last year.Still, its shares have ample room to run as the company launches a digital bank account for low- and moderate-income Americans and signs more partnership deals, said CEO Dan Henry, hired in March to lead a turnaround of the firm.Green Dot started two decades ago as a pioneer in prepaid debit cards, which allowed people without bank accounts or credit history to use plastic. After acquiring a small FDIC-backed bank, Green Dot became the de facto partner for tech giants including Apple, Uber and Amazon, providing the regulated banking rails and deposit accounts for products including Apple Cash.Now, under Henry's leadership team, Green Dot is making a play to become the main bank account for the 100 million Americans underserved by traditional banks, a space where start-ups including Chime have made headway. Green Dot's market capitalization of about $3 billion is dwarfed by most of its rivals, including the $14.5 billion private valuation of Chime."We are the after-Christmas sale of a lifetime," Henry said in a Zoom interview. "The assets that Green Dot has are unparalleled with any fintech in the country. They are very much undervalued, and I think our company is very much underestimated." Shares of Green Dot surged 9.5% in trading Wednesday amid a broad rally in bank shares.In some ways, Green Dot's strategy mirrors that of another financial firm at a crossroads: Goldman Sachs. Both firms are seeking to take advantage of the fact that they own banks but don't maintain expensive branch networks. Both are developing digital banking products for a direct-to-consumer business, as well as partnerships to become the financial plumbing for new offerings from well-known brands, a move known as banking-as-a-service."We need to digitize banking and make it more efficient and more Apple-esque in terms of the user experience," Henry said. "That's going to add additional value for us in the near term. And then, the moon-shot opportunities with our partners now is super, super exciting for us."`Another doubling'Before Henry's arrival, Green Dot struggled as users of the company's prepaid cards began to migrate to newer digital solutions including Square's Cash App and PayPal's Venmo. In 2019, the company was twice forced to slash guidance and its stock collapsed from a high of $82.06 to under $25.That ultimately led to the arrival of activist investor Starboard Value, a New York-based hedge fund, and the installation of Henry, who had co-founded a European payments firm and spent six years as CEO of a Green Dot rival called NetSpend. Henry said he had a good relationship with Starboard."The share price has doubled since I've been here," he said. "I think they'd probably like to see at least another doubling."Like its flashier rivals, Green Dot has benefited from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, including the government stimulus checks and unemployment benefits that boosted customer accounts and the overall accelerated adoption of digital payments.But to keep the turnaround on track, Henry will have to continue to improve Green Dot's financial performance, expand on the firm's partnerships and successfully launch the new digital bank, called GO2bank.Henry figures that if Green Dot can persuade users to sign up for direct deposit, the company can earn $10 from each customer per month. The service, which launches Wednesday, will offer many of the features made popular by other fintech accounts, including faster access to paychecks, higher interest and up to 7% cash back on certain purchases."As long as we don't create a corporate headquarters with a dining room and marble floors and all that crap, we can just keep our fixed costs fixed, and every one of those customers that comes in brings us $10 a month that drops to the bottom line," Henry said. "We'll grow our profits and we don't have to figure out ways to nickel-and-dime them."

2020/11/06, Apple CEO Tim Cook introduces Apple Card during a launch event at Apple headquarters on Monday, March 25, 2019, in Cupertino, California.Noah Berger | AFP | Getty ImagesThe ongoing pandemic has not been good for cash. Because of a national coin shortage and fears that handling cash or cards could transmit the Covid-19 coronavirus, over half of Americans are now using contactless payments, according to a Mastercard survey from August.Instead, Americans are finally using mobile wallets to pay by tapping their phones, which benefits companies like Apple that have been building sophisticated payment ecosystems into their phones that include contactless payments.One company that could benefit from the trend towards digital payments is Green Dot, a bank that has quietly powered the backend of financial services like Apple Cash and the rewards part of the Apple Card credit card.

2020/11/17, In this articleFBINTCAAPLApple MacBook Air 2020 with M1 chipTodd Haselton | CNBCApple made a good decision to ditch Intel and develop its own chips for its Mac computers. I've been testing the $999 version of the MacBook Air with Apple's new M1 chip for the past several days, and it's faster and offers better battery life than what equivalent Intel models offered.Companies like Microsoft have also issued laptops with lower-powered Arm-based processors from Qualcomm and others, but those computers tended to come with a lot of compromises. Microsoft's Surface Pro X, for example, didn't always support legacy apps, wasn't as powerful, and had poor battery life compared with Intel-based Windows computers. Based on my testing, the MacBook Air avoids those kinds of compromises.Apple did make a lot of wild promises about its new M1 chip. It said it's faster than 98% of the laptops sold in the last year (which may be true, given that many are low-cost Chromebooks and entry-level Windows computers). It also promises up to five times faster graphics for some tasks and all-day battery life. I couldn't verify all those claims, but it is noticeably faster than its predecessors.It's also the first Mac to run iPhone and iPad apps, but doesn't have a touch screen, which means those apps aren't particularly useful, and there's a limited selection anyway. It feels like a fast laptop, not some kind of dramatic new hybrid like the first Surface was. But long term, the new chip opens doors for Apple to make touch-screen Macs that let you interact with apps without a mouse or keyboard. Or maybe it's laying the foundation for some sort of iPad that can run both Mac and iPad apps.Here's what you need to know about the new MacBook Air.What's goodZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsMacBook AIr 2020 with M1The new MacBook Air looks identical to the model Apple launched in March. It has the same keyboard, which fixed a lot of reliability problems with the one that Apple had been using since 2015.The biggest change you might notice on first glance is the screen, which is now just as colorful as the one on Apple's more expensive MacBook Pro laptops. It helps images and videos look more accurate and will be useful for folks who want to edit visual content on the MacBook Air.In fact, the new MacBook Air is perfectly capable of editing videos with pro-level software like Final Cut 10.5 -- in the past, many professionals have relied on the $1,299 MacBook Pro for video editing. I tested some editing on it and found that the laptop easily handled scrubbing through a 4K video without any hiccups I'd normally see on the previous-generation MacBook Air with an Intel chip.I ran a few software tests just to see how much faster the new MacBook is and if it met some of Apple's claims. Using software that measures the power of the processor, called Geekbench, I found the new MacBook Air to be twice as fast as the Intel-based equivalent model at some tasks and more than three times as fast at others.2020 MacBook Air with M1 chipTodd Haselton | CNBCI repeated these tests in some real-world environments, like in the game Shadow of the Tomb Raider. I don't think folks normally think of Macs as gaming systems, but Apple's website says the game runs 3.5 times faster than the MacBook Air.That's true: the old MacBook Air can barely run the game while the new MacBook Air can run it fine and on higher graphics settings. That game is 2 years old, though, so I still wouldn't think of the Mac as a powerhouse compared with laptops with dedicated graphics chips from Nvidia or AMD. But, it's more powerful than the Intel's embedded graphics.Apps open quickly, too, but are more on par with the MacBook Air from earlier this year. I didn't notice any sort of slowdown even when I had lots of tabs open in the browser and about a dozen different apps open.The new MacBook Air has longer battery life than the Intel models, too, despite the faster chip. I turned it on at 9:15 a.m. and still had 28% at 6:12 p.m. after using it most of the day, running benchmarks and watching a nearly two-hour movie in 1080p. Apple promises up to 18 hours of battery life if you're just watching a movie, versus 12 hours on the last MacBook Air. But how you use your computer will drastically change the battery life. I think most folks will get a full day.2020 MacBook Air with M1 chipTodd Haselton | CNBCIt's really quiet, too, since there's no fan inside to kick on while you're in the middle of work. But that comes at a cost: the bottom gets pretty hot.The chip change does not break any old apps -- at least the ones I use -- you can still run the ones that were designed for older Macs. I was able to download and open a bunch of apps from third parties that weren't built for M1, like Spotify, Cisco AnyConnect, Geekbench and Google Chrome. They worked just fine. New versions of Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator optimized for M1 chips are coming later.2020 MacBook Air with M1 chipTodd Haselton | CNBCThe M1 chip also lets the MacBook Air run some iPhone and iPad apps, but a lot of app makers have opted out from having their apps published. I found some apps I use regularly on my iPhone, like the calorie-counting app "Lose It," CNBC and HBO Max, but there aren't apps for Instagram, any of Google's products, Netflix or Hulu, which is kind of a bummer.Also, the iPhone and iPad apps that do work on the new Mac are fairly limited -- you can't make HBO Max full screen, for example. Moreover, most of these apps are designed around a touch screen, so unless Apple adds one to a future Mac, this feature is mostly a novelty and an easy way to use apps that otherwise weren't available on Mac.What's badZoom In IconArrows pointing outwards2020 MacBook Air with M1On a strict design level, there's not much "wow" factor here. The new MacBook Air still looks and feels exactly like the last MacBook Air, just with a faster processor, better screen, support for iPhone/iPad apps and longer battery life. Those are great improvements, but they probably aren't going to drive a lot of upgrades in the short term.The M1 MacBook Air only supports one external monitor instead of two like on the last MacBook Air. I use two additional screens every day, so people who have a similar work flow might be upset about this. Also, while the 720p webcam offers sharper and clearer video thanks to additional smarts from the M1, it's still a lower resolution than what you'll find on other computers, like the Microsoft Surface, which has a 5MP camera. It's fine for FaceTime, though.I also couldn't test every app out there in the week or so I had with the new MacBook Air. So there may be apps that don't run properly on the new M1 chip yet. Your mileage may vary, though all of the apps I use for work and play ran fine.I am also a little peeved that I spent $999 on a MacBook Air back in March only to have it replaced by a faster model with a better screen and more apps just eight months later. I guess that's the pace of technology, but it still stings for people like me who expect a new product to be state-of-the-art for at least a year before it's replaced.Should you buy it?2020 MacBook Air with M1 chipTodd Haselton | CNBCI tested the $999 MacBook Air and think it's a great buy for the price if you need a new computer. I was pretty blown away by how powerful it felt compared with Intel models, and I think people will be pleasantly surprised to see it can handle tasks like video editing compared with previous models.But, if you're just starting to think about new MacBooks, you may want to wait a little bit. It seems like there's a lot of power here to enable new features that could launch in versions of the MacBook Air with a new design, perhaps with touch screens, a better camera and new options like Face ID.At the rate Apple's releasing new computers, you might not have to wait long.VIDEO4:5704:57Apple announces first laptop with M1 chip, the new MacBook AirNews Videos

2020/12/04, A protester outside the White House urges the United States to take action to stop China's oppression of the Uighurs, on August 14, 2020 in Washington, DC.Chip Somodevilla | Getty Images News | Getty ImagesA Chinese dissident has targeted three American corporations after a report alleged that they lobbied the U.S. Congress to weaken a bill banning imports made using forced labor in China's Xinjiang province.Citing unnamed congressional staffers and lobbying records, the New York Times on Sunday reported that the bill, known as the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, has come under pressure from multinational companies including Nike, Apple and Coca-Cola, as well as business groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.The bill is designed to crack down on alleged human rights abuses against Muslim minority groups in China's far west. The UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination in 2018 accused China of detaining at least 1 million Uighur and Turkic people in "so-called counter-extremism" camps that engage in "political and cultural indoctrination."China denies forced laborIn a statement to CNBC, China's embassy in the United States denied that it uses forced labor."Some US politicians have concocted disinformation of so-called 'forced labor' in order to restrict and oppress relevant parties and enterprises in China as well as contain China's development," said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying."The US practice violates the international trade rules and market economy principles, destroys the global industrial chains and supply chains, and damages the interests of enterprises and consumers in various countries, including the United States," said the statement, which added that, "All ethnic groups in Xinjiang choose their occupations according to their own will and sign "labor contracts" of their own volition in accordance with law on the basis of equality."Bi-partisan supportThe forced labor bill gained bipartisan support on Capitol Hill, passing in the House by a vote of 406 to 3, but lobbyists have reportedly sought to water down its requirements, citing concerns that they could disrupt supply chains in China. The bill has not yet passed the U.S. Senate but has sufficient backing to do so, the New York Times reported.Exiled Chinese dissident Badiucao, who in September was awarded the Vaclav Havel International Prize for Creative Dissent, took to his 74,000 Twitter followers on Thursday to launch a series of satirical images targeting Nike, Apple and Coca-Cola for their alleged efforts to weaken the bill.Speaking to CNBC via telephone from Australia on Thursday, Badiucao, who goes by a pseudonym, said he hopes the campaign will raise awareness of the persecution of Uighurs and encourage consumers to learn more about the brands they buy from."It is extremely disappointing to see those big corporations trying to block it with the lobbying action they are doing. I think this is really despicable and not acceptable," Badiucao said."Ultimately, the customers will decide the reaction of the company, as they are only doing this to meet our desire, so the power is still within the consumer," he said.'Constructive discussions'Nike in a statement to CNBC on Thursday denied lobbying against the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act or any other forced labor legislation, saying it has "long prioritized constructive discussions on issues of respecting human rights" with members of Congress. The company said it doesn't source products from the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, and its contract suppliers don't procure textiles there.Coca-Cola said it prohibits forced labor in its supply chain and uses independent, third-party audits to enforce its guidelines. A facility in Xinjiang that supplies sugar to a local bottling operation "successfully completed an audit in 2019," the company said Thursday.Coca-Cola added that it does not import goods from that facility, called COFCO Tunhe, or the region of Xinjiang into the United States.Apple told CNBC that it found no evidence of forced labor among its China-based suppliers during an investigation it carried out this year. The company said it conducts regular assessments including surprise audits."Apple is dedicated to ensuring that everyone in our supply chain is treated with dignity and respect. We abhor forced labor and support the goals of Uygher Forced Labor Prevention Act," Apple said in a statement.'Information black hole'One of Badiucao's satirical images tries to draw a visual contrast with Nike's endorsement of former NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick's "take a knee" initiative. The Apple image mimics the company's iPhone advertising, but changes the product name to "iChain."Badiucao suggested that corporations generally are able to "exploit this information black hole created by the Chinese government," with consumers often unaware of events on the ground owing to the government's control on information from the region.A Nike Ad featuring football player Colin Kaepernick is on display September 8, 2018 in New York City.Angela Weiss | AFP | Getty ImagesOn Wednesday, the U.S. government issued a ban on cotton and cotton products from the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC), one of China's largest producers.Badiucao's collection also takes aim at apparel brand Zara, owned by Spain's Inditex, and Japan's Muji, alleging the presence of Xinjiang cotton in their supply chains. Clothing brands around the world have been accused by human rights groups of having links to cotton picked in Xinjiang camps.Inditex said it takes a "zero-tolerance" approach toward forced labor and has policies in place to ensure that it doesn't take place anywhere in its supply chain."We are aware of a number of such reports alleging social and labor malpractice in various supply chains among Uyghurs in Xinjiang (China) as well as in other regions, which are highly concerning," the company said in a statement."Following an internal investigation," the company said, "we can confirm that Inditex does not have commercial relations with any factory in Xinjiang."Muji said it does not tolerate any form of forced labor or human trafficking in its supply chains, and an independent third party audit had not found any "material violations" of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights."In addition, all of our cottons and yarns have obtained the international organic certification confirmed by a third-party organization, the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS), which requires the compliance with working conditions set by the International Labor Organization (ILO)," a spokesperson told CNBC.—CNBC's Christine Wang contributed to this report.

2021/02/08, A Renesas Electronics Corp. central processing unit (CPU) board and microcontrollers.Kiyoshi Ota | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesRenesas Electronics Corp and Dialog Semiconductor said on Monday they had agreed for the Japanese chipmaker to buy the Frankfurt-listed chip designer for 4.9 billion euros ($5.90 billion) in cash.Renesas, one of the world's biggest auto chip makers, has offered 67.50 euros a share for the Apple Inc supplier, representing a 20% premium to Friday's closing price and a 52% premium to a weighted three-month average.Dialog said in a statement that the agreed deal represented a "compelling opportunity" for its shareholders. Its board of directors would unanimously recommend the offer.Dialog shares were 21% higher in early Frankfurt trading at 68 euros, a slight premium to the price of the agreed deal.

2020/11/24, People wait in line at the Apple Fifth Avenue store for the release of the new iPhone on October 23, 2020 in New York City.Michael M. Santiago | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Apple, the largest company in the U.S., has long been a favorite stock on the Street, but Morgan Stanley found that institutional investors are actually underweight the tech giant.  Analyst Katy Huberty came to this conclusion after analyzing Apple's weighting in the S&P 500 against its total institutional ownership. The finding represents a divergence from other large-cap technology companies, including Microsoft and Amazon, which have seen their ownership among institutional investors shift based on their portion of the market. The divergence could force fund managers to buy more Apple shares or risk underperforming the S&P.

2020/12/08, VIDEO1:1801:18Apple announces AirPods Max over-ear headphones for $549Squawk BoxApple on Tuesday announced AirPods Max, new over-ear noise-canceling headphones that will launch on Dec. 15 for $549.The AirPods Max may be appealing to customers who didn't want in-ear headphones, such as the AirPods. They sit over your ears, which may be comfortable for longer periods but offer similar features like support for "Hey Siri" for voice commands, quick pairing to your iPhone and noise cancellation.They also include transparency mode, which lets you hear noises around you, such as cars while walking on a busy street, and spatial audio, which makes it sound like audio from movies and TV shows is coming directly from an iPad or iPhone. The AirPods Max have sensors built into the earcups that allow them to detect when they're on your head or not. That way, music pauses if you take them off, or lift an earcup to speak to someone.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsApple AirPods MaxAppleBut they're also expensive for headphones. Most products in this category from competitors such as Bose and Sony, or even Apple's own Beats brand, cost around $350. Some of that cost may come down to materials, like the stainless steel headband, since other headphones are typically made out of plastic.They also include large speakers, although they're the same size found on Sony's competing set, and a feature Apple says it took from professional speakers, called a ring magnet motor, which helps keep distortion under 1% across the entire audible range. The AirPods Max are powered by two of Apple's H1 chips, instead of just one, which help analyze and adjust music and noise cancellation based on your environment up to 200 times per second.The AirPods Max also come with a little carrying purse with magnets that tell the AirPods Max to go into an ultra-low power mode to help save battery life when they're not in use.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAirPods Max Smart CaseAppleThere are other unique features, too, like a Digital Crown that's similar to the one on an Apple Watch, for adjusting volume or answering phone calls.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAirPods Max headphonesAppleApple promises up to 20 hours of battery life with noise cancellation, which is on a par or even below competitors.The AirPods Max may just help Apple cater to a higher-end audience, however, since it already sells headphones ranging from about $50 through its Beats brand, up to $350. The AirPods Max are now the most premium tier and could be particularly appealing to business travelers who need noise cancelling headphones on airplanes, where one might normally see people wearing Sony and Bose headsets.Apple's "other products revenue," which includes AirPods and Apple Watch, has been on a tear in recent quarters, with revenue up 20.9% year-over-year in the fourth quarter.The AirPods Max are available in five colors: silver, gray, blue, green and pink.VIDEO13:2213:22How Beats By Dre became a multibillion-dollar brandSuddenly ObsessedSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/11/16, Apple CEO Tim Cook reveals the new iPhone 12.SourceLONDON — Apple on Monday found itself the target of two complaints from Austrian privacy activist Max Schrems, who has successfully fought Facebook in historic legal battles twice before.Schrems' Vienna-based non-profit group, Noyb, filed complaints in Germany and Spain alleging Apple's use of a tracking code on iPhones, called IDFA, breaches European law.IDFA, or Identifier for Advertisers, is a unique device ID number used by advertisers to better target ads and estimate their effectiveness. Noyb argues the tool is created and stored on Apple devices without user consent."The IDFA is placed into the device without the user's consent," Stefano Rosetti, data protection lawyer at Noyb, told CNBC. "We find that this constitutes a violation of the so-called "cookie law" ... which prohibits the installation of trackers of any sort without the user consent."Apple disputed Noyb's complaints in a statement Monday, saying its practices "comply with European law" and that its latest software release, iOS 14, gives users "greater control" over ad tracking."The claims made against Apple in this complaint are factually inaccurate and we look forward to making that clear to privacy regulators should they examine the complaint," a spokesperson for the company said. "Apple does not access or use the IDFA on a user's device for any purpose."Apple — which already allows users to opt-out of personalized advertising in their phone's settings — had originally planned to require app developers on its iOS mobile operating system to ask users if they want to opt-in to such tracking.But it took the decision to delay this change to early 2021 after warnings over the impact it could have on Facebook and other mobile advertisers. Nevertheless, Noyb's Rosetti doesn't think the company's new feature would make much of a difference."It's not clear, for example, if the tracker will still be created and then some sort of technical mechanism will hinder third parties from accessing it," he said. "And what about Apple? Will the company access the tracker? Again it's not clear.""In a sense, it does not concern this action because ... our point is that the tracker should not be created/installed in the first place (at least without the user's informed and freely given consent)."Noyb said its complaints weren't based on GDPR — a major piece of EU legislation that allows authorities to impose hefty fines — meaning the Spanish and German regulators can fine Apple directly without having to cooperate with other data protection authorities in the bloc.Schrems has risen to fame in the last decade for taking on Facebook over the transfer of European citizens' data to the U.S. He argued that, in light of revelations from American whistleblower Edward Snowden, U.S. law did not offer sufficient protection against surveillance by public authorities.His first major victory came in 2015 when he successfully brought down the EU's Safe Harbor agreement on EU-U.S. data transfers. Five years later, the European Court of Justice agreed with Schrems that a new framework called the Privacy Shield doesn't adequately protect the privacy of Europeans.It's a major development that means companies moving people's personal data from the EU to other jurisdictions will have to provide the same protections given inside the bloc. Facebook has clashed with Ireland's data protection watchdog over the matter, arguing it could threaten its EU operations.

2021/01/15, Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks during a special event at the company's headquarters of Apple Park in a still image from video taken in Cupertino, California, U.S. September 15, 2020.Apple Inc. | ReutersHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2020/10/30, CEO Tim Cook waves while arriving on stage during a previous Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in San Jose, California.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only).Apple's latest earnings report was received cautiously by top Wall Street analysts as uncertainty around iPhone sales weighed against better-than-expected headline numbers.The consumer tech giant reported higher-than-expected earnings per share and revenue for its fiscal fourth quarter Thursday, with results for services, Mac computers and iPads beating projections. Sales of the flagship iPhone, however, fell short, and Apple did not provide guidance for the upcoming quarter.Shares of Apple were down about 4% in premarket trading to around $111 per share as traders digested the report.

2020/11/12, In this articleAAPLmacOS Big SurAppleApple just released its macOS Big Sur update, following its "One More Thing" event on Tuesday. MacOS Big Sur, the latest operating system for Macs, brings a lot of new features to your computer, including a totally redesigned user interface that borrows a lot from what people are already familiar with on iPhones and iPads.You can start downloading Big Sur as of Thursday afternoon. It'll work on most Macs in use today. It'll also ship with the new Macs that Apple announced earlier this week.Here are some highlights that you can expect from macOS Big Sur.MacOS Big Sur introduces a new designMacOS Big SurAppleMacOS Big Sur introduces a total design refresh, with new icons that are more like those on iPhones and iPads. The main menu bar and dock are translucent now, too, which gives it a more modern look and, again, brings it more in line with the interface on Apple's other products. The new design includes lots of the elements I'll talk about below.Control CenterControl Center in macOS Big SurAppleApple is also bringing Control Center over from iPhones and iPads. This is a small menu that lets you easily access your Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, AirDrop and other settings.Just tap the top right of the screen with your mouse and you'll see it. You can add other apps to Control Center, such as one that shows the battery life of your device.Notifications and widgetsWidgets in macOS Big Sur.AppleMacOS has had widgets for years, but Apple is again adding a couple of features you may be used to on your iPhone or iPad. They can be grouped together and dismissed at once, for example. Notifications also appear with the most recent at the top, like on an iPhone. And widgets for stocks, weather, reminders, calendar and more have been redesigned.I wish you could pin them to the desktop like on an iPhone, but they're tucked away into a small sidebar, hidden to the right of the screen by default, where the notification center lives. Apple will continue supporting third-party widgets, so you can add others from the apps you use most, too.MessagesMessages in macOS Big Sur.AppleThis is probably the feature I'm most excited about. Messages is also just like the app on iPhone and iPad now. You can group text messages together and pin them to the top of the page, for example, so that you can always easily access your group chats. It also lets you share your name and photo just like on iPhone, so everyone automatically has a picture for you in their chat. And you can get notifications if you're mentioned by name in a chat. Other features include Memoji stickers, image search and in-line replies.SafariSafari extensions in macOS Big SurAppleSafari is also getting a total redesign. It offers improved performance so it feels faster. Apple says frequently visited websites will load 50% faster than Google Chrome.One of my favorite features lets you preview an open website by hovering your mouse over an open tab. It shows you a small sample of the site that's open so you know what you're clicking into and if it's the tab you're looking for. Safari is also getting extensions in the App Store. These are the tiny apps that other browsers such as Chrome already offer that can let you do things on a website. Pocket is one widget I use in Chrome, for example, which lets me save stories to read later.Safari has a bunch of other updates that are on iPhone and iPad, too, such as new privacy reports so you can see how websites use your information, alerts if your password may have been obtained in a security breach and more.MapsApple Maps in macOS Big Sur.AppleMacOS Big Sur includes a big Maps refresh, too. It's, again, much more like Maps on iPhone and iPad, with cycling routes, a 3D "Look Around" feature that's like Google Street View, indoor maps and options to create certain guides before you visit a city. A guide, for example, can let you save a list of restaurants or sites to see when you travel, and that list is then synced right onto your iPhone or iPad. Maps also includes new routes for electric vehicles that show you charging stations after you've synced your car with your iPhone.iPhone and iPad apps on Apple's new M1 MacsApple M1 showing gamesSource: M1One of the other new changes in macOS Big Sur is support for iPhone and iPad apps. But you need to own one of the new Macs Apple introduced earlier this week to run them. New models include the MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and Mac Mini with Apple's M1 chip, which replaces Intel chips in previous-generation Macs. It's this chip that allows you to run the iPhone and iPad apps, so you won't be able to if you have an older Mac. The M1 Macs will be released next week.MacOS Big Sur supported devicesThere are a lot of other features, such as updates to Siri for web search, new weather notifications, including if it will rain soon or if severe weather is expected, better search across your whole computer and added controls for your smart home.MacOS Big Sur is supported by:The 2015 MacBook and newer.The 2013 MacBook Air and newer.The late 2013 MacBook Pro and later.The 2014 Mac Mini and later.The 2014iMac and later.The 2017 iMac Pro and later.The 2013 Mac Pro and later.How to download macOS Big SurYou can download Big Sur by doing this:Tap the Apple icon on the top left of your screen.Click System Preferences.Choose software update.It's also available in the Mac App Store. Sometimes it takes a few minutes for it to appear for download.VIDEO4:1504:15Apple announces updated 13-inch MacBook Pro laptop using new M1 chipsNews VideosSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/02/03, In this articleAAPLGOOGLAMZNConservatives flocked to social media platform Parler during the 2020 presidential election. Parler bills itself as an alternative to Twitter and Facebook, which some believe overstepped their bounds when they began to label then-President Donald Trump's posts and eventually banned him.One of Parler's draws has been its more relaxed moderation policies. Founded in 2018 by John Matze and Jared Thomson, Parler was meant to be a "town square," where people could freely express their views without fear of being "deplatformed."But this has led to a slew of violent posts on the platform. Now, Google, Apple and Amazon have abandoned Parler, and the company's future is uncertain. Watch the video to find out more.

2020/11/30, Apple CEO Tim Cook delivers the keynote address during the 2020 Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) at Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, California.Brooks Kraft/Apple Inc/Handout via Reuters(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only).Shares of Apple moved higher Monday as Wall Street analysts signaled increasing confidence about the new generation of iPhones.Loop Capital Markets and Morgan Stanley said in client notes on Monday that early signs pointed to sales of the iPhone 12 surpassing expectations. Apple rolled out the iPhone 12 in October, including a model compatible with 5G, the most anticipated of a series of product events for the hardware giant this fall.The megacap stock gained 2.1% on Monday.

2020/11/09, In this article4938-TWThe logo of Apple company is seen outside an Apple store in Bordeaux, France, March 22, 2019.Regis Duvignau | ReutersApple said Monday it has suspended future business with Pegatron, a key partner for assembling products like iPhones and iPads, for violating its labor rules."Several weeks ago, we discovered Pegatron — one of Apple's suppliers in China — violated Apple's Supplier Code of Conduct in its administration of a student work study program," an Apple spokesperson told CNBC. Apple said Pegatron misclassified student workers and falsified paperwork to help disguise violations of Apple's code of conduct. Students were allowed to work nights and/or overtime and sometimes students worked on projects unrelated to their major, Apple told CNBC. Those students were ultimately compensated for their work and were returned back to home and school, the company said.The New York Times first reported the news on Monday.Apple said Pegatron employees went to extraordinary lengths to evade its oversight mechanisms and that Pegatron fired the executive in charge of the program. Apple won't give the company any additional business until it corrects parts of the business that led to the violations. This isn't the first time Apple's suppliers have come under fire for the labor conditions in the factories that make up its supply chain in China. It relies on overseas manufacturers like Pegatron and Foxconn to assemble large numbers of phones quickly, but these companies have been accused of paying little and treating workers poorly.Pegatron's probation will not affect current production of iPhones, according to the Times. Apple's new iPhone 12 Pro Max and iPhone 12 Mini went on sale Nov. 6 and will start shipping this Friday.   CNBC's Josh Lipton contributed to this report.VIDEO4:4004:40Here's why Apple didn't issue guidance for iPhone salesSquawk Alley

2020/10/29, VIDEO0:3600:36Apple beats top and bottom line but iPhone revenues miss estimatesClosing BellApple reported fourth-quarter earnings on Thursday that slightly exceeded Wall Street expectations, but the company did not offer investors any guidance for the quarter ending in December. iPhone sales were down more than 20% year-over-year.Here's how Apple did versus analyst expectations via Refinitiv estimates:EPS: 73 cents vs 70 cents estimatedRevenue: $64.7 billion vs $63.70 billion estimated, up 1% year-over-yeariPhone revenue: $26.44 billion vs. $27.93 billion estimated, down 20.7% year-over-yearServices revenue: $14.55 billion vs. $14.08 billion estimated, up 16.3% year-over-yearOther Products revenue: $7.88 billion vs. $7.40 billion estimated, up 20.9% year-over-yearMac revenue: $9.0 billion vs. $7.93 billion estimated, up 28% year-over-yeariPad revenue: $6.8 billion vs. $6.12 billion estimated, up 46% year-over-yearGross margin: 38.2% vs. 38.1% estimatedThe lack of fiscal first-quarter 2021 guidance from Apple means that investors and analysts don't get a hint at how Apple is projecting the sales performance of the iPhone 12, which went on sale in October. Apple stock dropped over 4% in extended trading."If you look at the case count, the case counts are climbing in Western Europe. They're climbing in the United States. And so there's still a sufficient level of uncertainty out there… we don't believe that's an environment to guide into," Apple CEO Tim Cook told CNBC's Josh Lipton. Apple hasn't offered guidance for the past two quarters because of uncertainty related to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, Cook said that he was optimistic about iPhone 12 sales for a number of reasons, including 5G support, carrier promotions, and a loyal install base, and said that "initial data points are really quite good."Sales in China were a weak point for Apple. Sales in greater China, which includes Hong Kong and Taiwan, dropped to $7.95 billion from $11.13 billion a year before, over a 28% decrease."A larger percentage of China revenue is made up of new iPhones. And so that's the reason the number for the total quarter started with a minus sign. But given what we see in the early going with the new iPhones, we're confident we'll grow in Q1," Cook told CNBC.iPhone revenue was down over 20% from the same quarter last year and came up short against Wall street expectations. However, many investors and analysts are more focused on how the iPhone 12 will sell in the coming year. Apple's iPhones went on sale this year in October, and more models are planned for next month, meaning that sales from the new devices aren't counted in this quarter.Cook also said that Apple wasn't concerned about worries that the iPhone 12, which is 5G-enabled, is outpacing the construction of 5G networks. "There are obvious places in the world where it's more ahead than in others," Cook said. "But we feel like we are entering sort of at exactly the right time."Revenue for Macs and iPads both exceeded analyst expectations, most likely driven by strong work-from-home trends during the pandemic. Apple drew attention to strong results in those categories last quarter, too. Overall, Mac revenue was up 28% year-over-year and iPad revenue rose 46% from the same quarter last year. Cook hinted at future product launches in 2020, likely Mac computers that use Apple-designed chips. "Without giving away too much, I can tell you that this year has a few more exciting things in store," Cook said.Apple released new Apple Watch Series 6 models that went on sale in September. The category that those devices are counted in for sales is called Wearables, Home, and Accessories, which came in slightly higher than expectations. The category also includes sales from headphones such as AirPods and Beats. Sales for the category were up over 20% on a year-over-year basis. Investors are always closely examining Apple's services business, which includes subscriptions like iCloud and Apple Music, fees from the App Store paid by app developers, and licensing revenue. Services revenue exceeded Wall Street expectations and grew 16% over last year. On Friday, Apple will release bundles of its subscription services called Apple One, Cook told CNBC. The bundles vary by region but include Apple Music, iCloud storage, and Apple TV+ streaming video among other subscription services.

2020/12/04, In this articleAAPLiPhone 11Todd Haselton | CNBCApple said on Friday that it will repair some iPhone 11 devices that don't respond to touch.The affected devices were manufactured between November 2019 and May 2020, and the issue affects a "small percentage" of display modules, Apple said.The replacement program doesn't cover other models, like the iPhone 11 Pro, and it only covers affected devices.Users can check if their phone is eligible on Apple's website by checking their serial number.The iPhone 11 was first launched in September 2019. In January, Apple CEO Tim Cook suggested that the iPhone 11 was Apple's best-selling model in the weeks after it launched. "iPhone 11 was our top-selling model every week during the December quarter," Cook said.In the quarter ended September 30, Apple reported iPhone revenue of $26.4 billion, down 20.7% year-over-year. iPhone sales accounted for 40.8% of Apple's revenue that quarter.The company introduced and began selling several new iPhone 12 models in October.VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the Street

2020/12/02, People wait in line at the Apple Fifth Avenue store for the release of the new iPhone on October 23, 2020 in New York City.Michael M. Santiago | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only.)Morgan Stanley just released its annual list of "secular growth stocks," which are the 42 equities the Wall Street firm believes can deliver growth through their unique strengths.The list is scattered with growth stocks with "reasonable valuations," like Alphabet, Apple and Tesla, the firm said.

2020/12/02, Apple Macbook AirSource: AppleTop Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo of TF International Securities said in a note Wednesday that Apple is building two redesigned MacBook Pros set to launch in 2021 and a new "more affordable" MacBook Air due to launch in 2022.Apple's MacBooks are overdue for a redesign. It launched a new 13-inch MacBook Pro and MacBook Air in November with the Apple M1 chip, which proved Apple is capable of besting Intel in battery life and performance. But the laptops don't offer much new in terms of hardware design. While Kuo didn't point to a touchscreen, the M1 laptops now support iPad and iPhone apps, opening up the possibility that Apple might one day add a touch screen to its computers.Macs have been selling well during the pandemic, with revenue up 28% year-over-year in Q4, but Apple could use the redesign to really push its M1 chips to more users. Some people might not see much of a reason to upgrade to the first M1 laptops right now, since they look the same as Intel-based models, but a big design change might help Apple continue to drive new purchases.Kuo said the new laptops will be among the first to use new mini LED screens. They're supposed to be better than the traditional LCD or OLED displays on today's gadgets with improved contrast, which would improve image and video quality. That could make it more appealing to photographers and videographers who use MacBooks to edit pictures and videos. Kuo said last year that the first mini LED product would be an iPad Pro in Q3 of 2020. But that product did not include a mini LED screen.VIDEO3:0903:09Apple unveils new Mac lineup: Mac Mini, MacBook Air and 13-inch MacBook proPower LunchSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/11/18, In this articleAAPLCustomers line up outside the Apple Store in George Street in order to look at the new iPhone 12 on sale on October 23, 2020 in Sydney, Australia.James D. Morgan | Getty ImagesApple will pay $113 million to settle allegations from 33 U.S. states and the District of Columbia that it slowed down iPhones to mask battery issues and get users to purchase new devices, state officials announced Wednesday.The deal with a coalition led by Arizona, Arkansas and Indiana is separate from a proposed settlement Apple reached in March to pay affected iPhone owners up to $500 million to stem a class action.Apple in 2016 quietly updated software on models of the iPhone 6, 7 and SE to throttle chip speeds so that aging batteries on the devices would not send power spikes to the phone's processor and cause it to unexpectedly shut down. States contended Apple acted deceptively and should have replaced batteries or disclosed the issue.Millions of users were affected by power shutoffs, according to an Arizona court filing."My colleagues and I are trying to get the attention of these big tech companies, and you would hope a multimillion-dollar judgment with more than 30 states will get their attention," Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich said in an interview."Companies cannot be disingenuous and conceal things," he added.Apple, which has denied wrongdoing, could not immediately be reached for comment.Apple also agreed for the next three years to provide "truthful information" about iPhone power management across its website, software update notes and iPhone settings. Arizona said Apple's present disclosures and options are sufficient. The settlement with states is subject to court approval.The multistate investigation into Apple, which Reuters first reported in July, is part of a wave of probes into the world's biggest technology providers.Republican attorneys general in 11 U.S. states last month joined the U.S. Justice Department in an antitrust lawsuit against Alphabet Inc.'s Google, and large, bipartisan groups of attorneys general have ongoing investigations into Google and Facebook Inc over potentially deceptive and anticompetitive practices.Apple acknowledged its update reduced power demands after researchers found unusual slowdowns in 2017. The company publicly apologized and slashed prices on battery replacements.The settlement includes $5 million to Arizona, $24.6 million to Apple's home state of California and $7.6 million to Texas. The latter two states have the nation's Nos. 1 and 2 affected iPhone user bases. Brnovich said the penalty in his state would help fund more investigations into tech and other companies.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO0:5700:57Why this trader is a buyer of bitcoin even as it hits a three-year highFutures Outlook

2020/11/13, In this articleAAPLVIDEO4:4404:44Prudential CEO explains plans for 'Pulse' health app, discusses Asia marketsEast Tech WestMike Wells, the chief executive of insurance company Prudential, said Apple and Google have the platforms to be competitors in the health arena, but it would mean facing even more regulatory scrutiny than they do already.The Silicon Valley giants, which reach billions of people with their iOS and Android mobile operating systems, have pushed deeper into health in recent years.Wells spoke to CNBC's Geoff Cutmore about the launch of Prudential's health app, called Pulse, which lets people in 10 Southeast Asian countries take health assessments, check symptoms, get video consultations with doctors, and view medical profiles.As far as Apple and Google being competitors, they certainly have the platforms to do that. They don't have the licenses yet to do that.Mike WellsChief executive, Prudential"As far as Apple and Google being competitors, they certainly have the platforms to do that," said Wells, who was interviewed as part of CNBC's East Tech West conference, which is being held virtually and on the ground in Guangzhou, China. But Wells added: "They don't have the licenses yet to do that."Whether Apple and Google would want to move into selling insurance is an "interesting question," according to Wells, who said it would depend on whether they wanted to operate on "more or less regulatory fronts."Neither company has launched a dedicated health insurance product, but they've shown early signs they're not afraid to enter the space.Prudential's Mike Wells.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesVerily, Google's health-focused sister company, has been looking at health insurance for years. It has teams working on medical research, diabetes care and a number of pandemic-specific initiatives.In August, Verily announced it was setting up a new subsidiary called Coefficient Insurance. The firm — which focuses on a type of employer-sponsored insurance known as "stop-loss" — has been backed by the commercial insurance division of Swiss Re Group with an undisclosed sum.Apple, meanwhile, has announced partnerships with insurers, like Aetna, that let people "earn off" the cost of an Apple Watch by being more healthy. It's also talking to private Medicare plans about subsidizing the cost of the device for elderly people.Regulatory hurdlesLike other U.S. tech giants, Apple and Google have found themselves under intense scrutiny from governments and regulators around the world in recent years.There are concerns that the companies have become so big that their market dominance means smaller firms can't compete. Google, for example, was fined 2.42 billion euros ($2.85 billion) by the European Commission in 2017 for allegedly abusing its dominance as a search engine and giving an illegal advantage to its own shopping service. Google tweaked its platform in order to avoid the EU fine, but some tech giants are appealing regulators' decisions.Wells said Prudential is "used to working in a very heavily-regulated environment, and for us, it's a natural extension of our business models and we work closely with policymakers."But while some smaller tech firms might struggle to work alongside tough regulations, that's not the case with Apple and Google, he said. "They're very capable of dealing with regulation."

2020/11/23, Steve Proehl | Corbis Unreleased | Getty ImagesA grand jury in Santa Clara, California, issued an indictment on Monday accusing Apple's chief security officer, Thomas Moyer, of offering bribes to secure concealed carry permits for Apple employees.Moyer allegedly promised to donate 200 iPads worth $70,000 to the Sheriff's Office in exchange for four concealed weapons (CCW) permits "withheld from Apple employees," according to a press release from the Santa Clara District Attorney Jeff Rosen."Tom Moyer is innocent of the charges filed against him. He did nothing wrong and has acted with the highest integrity throughout his career. We have no doubt he will be acquitted at trial," Moyer's lawyer Ed Swanson said in a statement to CNBC."We expect all of our employees to conduct themselves with integrity. After learning of the allegations, we conducted a thorough internal investigation and found no wrongdoing," an Apple spokesperson said in a statement. The charges filed on Monday are part of an investigation dating back to 2019 into whether or not the Santa Clara sheriff uses concealed carry permits to help solicit bribes and political donations. The sheriff's office covers Cupertino, California, where Apple's headquarters is located. Moyer has worked at Apple for 14 years and is now its head of global security, his lawyer said on Monday.The Santa Clara DA said that while state law says that people who receive concealed carry licenses in California need to demonstrate "good cause," as well as a complete a firearms course and have good moral character, the sheriff has the final say in determining who should qualify."Ultimately, this case is about a long, bitter and very public dispute between the Santa Clara County Sheriff and the District Attorney, and Tom is collateral damage to that dispute," Swanson said in a statement on behalf of Moyer.The Santa Clara DA alleges that officials in the Santa Clara County Sheriff's office, Undersheriff Rick Sung, and Captain James Jensen, were part of a scheme where they solicited bribes in exchange for easier approval of concealed carry permits. An insurance broker with political connections in San Jose was also charged with offering bribes in exchange permits on Monday.In 2020, an investigation from NBC Bay Area found that donors to the Santa Clara Sheriff's political campaigns were about 14 times more likely to get a concealed weapons permit than those who didn't contribute. Sheriff Laurie Smith hasn't been charged. Previously, four people were charged with conspiracy and bribery in August as a result of the investigation.The promised donation of the iPads was never fulfilled, according to the Santa Clara DA, because it was scuttled after a search warrant was executed for concealed carry records at the Sheriff's office in August 2019.VIDEO2:3802:38Apple plans to be 100% carbon neutral by 2030Tech

2020/12/22, A monitor displays Peloton Interactive Inc. signage during the company's initial public offering (IPO) across from the Nasdaq MarketSite in New York, U.S., on Thursday, Sept. 26, 2019.Michael Nagle | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines in midday trading.Peloton — The exercise equipment stock jumped more than 11.7% and hit an all-time high after Peloton announced that it planned to buy equipment manufacture Precor for $420 million. The deal could help Peloton ramp up production to meet strong demand.IAC — Shares of IAC jumped more than 14.1% on Tuesday after announcing it is spinning off its full stake in video software company Vimeo. Vimeo will become an independent publicly traded company after the deal closes, expected in the second quarter of 2021.Apple — A gain of 2.9% helped Apple offset losses in the major indexes given the iPhone maker's $2.2 trillion market cap. Investors accredited the equity's strength to reports that Apple is advancing plans to manufacture self-driving cars by 2024, a massive undertaking the tech company has dubbed Project Titan.CarMax — The auto retailer reported quarterly per-share earnings of $1.42, topping the consensus estimate of $1.14 a share. Revenue also came in above Wall Street forecasts. But CarMax shares fell more than 8% after the company reported that comparable used-vehicle sales dropped 0.8% compared to a FactSet consensus estimate of a 1% increase.Carnival, Norwegian Cruise Line, MGM Resorts — Travel-related stocks came under pressure amid lingering concerns about the new coronavirus strain from the U.K. Carnival lost 5.9%, Norwegian Cruise Line fell 6.9% and Royal Caribbean dipped 3%. MGM Resorts fell 0.5%. Delta Air Lines, American Airlines and United Airlines all slipped more than 2.5%.Sportsman's Warehouse – Shares of the retailer surged 39.6% after the company said it agreed to be bought by Great American Outdoors Group. The parent company of Cabela's will pay $18 in cash per share of Sportsman's Warehouse, above the stock's Monday closing price of $12.65 per share.RealReal — Shares of the luxury clothing company popped 10.3% after Baird initiated coverage of RealReal with an outperform rating. The Wall Street firm called RealReal a "compelling open-ended growth story."Rent-A-Center — Shares of the furniture and electronics rental company added 1.2% after Loop Capital upgraded Rent-A-Center to buy from hold. The investment firm said in a note that the company's acquisition of Acima was a "game changer."Illumina – Illumina shares advanced 2.3% after Piper Sandler upgraded the maker of gene sequencing technology to an overweight rating. "llumina is well-positioned as the leader in NGS [next-generation sequencings], and we believe it can maintain and grow its position by continuing to lower sequencing costs and taking advantage of data science advances…to improve short-read performance," the firm said in a note to clients.— with reporting from CNBC's Jesse Pound, Pippa Stevens and Tom Franck.

2020/10/28, Apple CEO Tim Cook speaks during Apple's annual Worldwide Developers Conference in San Jose, California, June 3, 2019.Mason Trinca | Reuters(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Wall Street analysts are warming up to Apple ahead of the company's fourth-quarter earnings after the bell on Thursday.Shares of the company are up more than 50% percent this year but down 6% since the company unveiled its long awaited new iPhone products on October 13.Even though the iPhone is not expected to factor into the company's results this quarter many analysts have been revising their price targets upwards in anticipation of Apple earnings.Perhaps the biggest question facing investors, analysts say, is whether the company will provide its quarterly outlook, which it has declined to do the previous two quarters.Shareholders will be looking for commentary on iPhone demand, potential new products and hints from the company over recent regulatory concerns.Here's what Apple analysts expect from the company's earnings report:

2020/10/14, In this articleAAPLThe Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max is unveiled during a virtual product launch.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe iPhone hit its peak three years ago.That's when Apple reported its last blowout holiday quarter for the iPhone, selling more than 77 million devices that generated $61.1 billion in revenue. It's been downhill for Apple's iPhone sales ever since.But the most bullish Apple analysts were nonetheless predicting a new "super cycle" for the iPhone ahead of the iPhone 12 announcement on Tuesday.Apple's last super cycle was in the fourth quarter of 2014, when it reinvigorated the iPhone lineup by introducing larger screens that matched rival devices from companies like Samsung. That quarter, Apple sold 74.47 million iPhones (up 46% from the previous year), generating $51.18 billion in revenue (up 57% from the year before).Apple's iPhone business has never seen that kind of growth again.Revenue peaked in the fourth quarter of 2017, but even then it was only up 13% from the previous year, and unit sales dropped 1% -- the increase in revenue was thanks to a higher average selling price, as Apple released its first $1,000 iPhone.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsThe bull caseSo what's with all the bullish calls for another super cycle given the iPhone's lackluster (or negative) growth over the last three years? A few factors are working in Apple's favor this time around.Time for an upgrade: Analysts estimate that 30% or more of current iPhone owners are using a device that's at least 3 years old. That's a lot more people than are normally feeling the itch to upgrade in a given year.Speed: The iPhone 12 series will be the first from Apple to connect to new 5G wireless networks that promise faster speeds for downloading and streaming, along with the potential for a new generation of apps that take advantage of the network.New look: The new iPhone 12 has the first significant change to the look and feel of the iPhone since 2017 -- it's thinner and lighter than recent versions, with flat edges that hearken back to the iPhone 4, instead of slightly rounded ones introduced with the iPhone 6. That new blue color looks pretty cool to boot.Pricing and segmentation. With the iPhone 12, Apple is offering more versions than ever, and the company stealthily increased the price of the baseline model, from $699 in the iPhone 11, to $799 or more for the iPhone 12. (There's also a smaller iPhone Mini that starts at $699.) That segmentation increases the chance of having a suitable iPhone for every type of buyer, while likely raising the average selling price unless the Mini proves to be a runaway hit and sells more than the other versions.All of that creates a chance for an iPhone sales jump like Apple last saw in 2014. At the very least, it could spur a revenue jump like 2017."It really comes down to if Apple can exceed the 231 million peak units from 2015. If they can, then this goes into the Cupertino hall of fame as a super cycle," Wedbush analyst Dan Ives, who has been predicting a super cycle for months, told CNBC in an interview Monday. "If they can't, then the disappointment will be reflected in the stock. The only way is to execute on the super cycle."The bear caseBut a super cycle is far from a slam dunk. Here's why:Little compelling case for 5G. During Tuesday's event, Apple started talking about 5G before it even mentioned the iPhone 12. Verizon CEO Hans Vestberg made an appearance to brag about his company's 5G expansion across the United States. There was a lot of talk from Apple about data speeds and jargon like "millimeter wave" thrown around.But the reality of 5G is that it's not nearly as prolific as today's 4G LTE networks. Even if you buy a 5G iPhone 12 this month, there's a good chance you won't be able to experience the top speeds Apple talked about.In addition, most of the apps you're already using on your iPhone work just fine on 4G LTE. Those connections are more than fast enough for placing FaceTime calls, streaming YouTube videos or downloading a podcast in a few seconds. Apple failed to give a compelling, real-world use case for 5G on Tuesday, meaning at best a 5G iPhone will future-proof your device for when all those promises actually come to pass.Luckily for Apple, 5G is a messy, complicated idea to grasp, giving the company room to leverage its marketing muscle. People will be barraged with the message that the iPhone 12 is going to be faster, and carriers are giddy to help out with that message to push their 5G expansion through the iPhone.Only a small design change. Apple moved to new form factors in 2014 with the iPhone 6 and 2017 with the iPhone X. A new iPhone feels even newer when there's a complete redesign. The iPhone 12 is technically a redesign, but it's more of an iteration on the 2017 design than a brand new form factor.We're in the middle of a pandemic. There's a recession. The unemployment rate was 7.9% in the U.S. in September. Millions are out of work. Congress continues to stall on passing a new stimulus bill. Spending hundreds of dollars on a new iPhone just isn't going to be an option for a lot of people around the world.On top of that, with so many brick-and-mortar stores closed or operating at limited capacity, Apple will have to rely more than ever on online orders. That means its shipping and logistics network needs to be up to snuff to grapple with the new demand. We'll get a better sense of how that's going as the new iPhones start to ship to the first customers next week.Apple CEO Tim Cook reveals the new iPhone 12.SourceDiversificationYears ago, Apple execs signaled that they knew they couldn't report insane iPhone sales growth forever. Eventually, things would level out and the company would need a new source of growth.So Apple began talking up its services business, which includes things like App Store sales, streaming music subscriptions and purchases of extra storage in iCloud. That new mission came into clearer focus last month when Apple introduced its Apple One services bundle. And if it wants to go a step further and make Apple One even more compelling, it can still tie the iPhone into future bundles.On top of that, the company has released new hardware accessories like AirPods and Apple Watch, which have spurred impressive growth in its wearables business.Apple proved that it can cure its addiction to the iPhone and build a broad and profitable ecosystem around its massive base of about 1 billion iPhone users around the world. For example, Apple reported $142.38 billion in iPhone revenue for the fiscal year that ended in September 2019, down from $164.89 billion in the previous fiscal year. But its Wearables category grew from $17.38 billion to $24.48 billion and its Services category grew from $39.75 billion to $46.29 billion during the period.And don't forget how investors have continued to reward Apple's stock despite the iPhone sales slump. Shares are up nearly 65% year to date, and Apple hit its $2 trillion market cap milestone in August, just over two years after it hit $1 trillion.As long as iPhone sales remain somewhat flat, Apple's revenue can continue to grow and its stock can continue to rise.So even if Apple misses the mark and can't fulfill analysts' predictions by delivering another super cycle, the good news is Apple just needs to keep the iPhone business steady and focus on building compelling services and accessories around its most important product line.VIDEO6:4806:48Verizon CEO on Apple 5G's phone and rolling out 5G in the United StatesPower Lunch

2020/10/21, In this articleAAPL2020 iPad AirTodd Haselton | CNBCI've been testing Apple's new iPad Air for the past several days. Its new design is an awful lot like my iPad Pro, which I spent more than $1,000 on a couple of years ago. But it starts at $599, a considerable discount from Apple's Pro models and offers more than what you'd get from the "regular" $329 iPad.If you want an iPad that you can use for work (depending on what you do, of course), with cameras that are better for video chats and an optional keyboard accessory with a mouse, the new iPad Air is the one to get. If you just need an iPad to read the news and listen to music, you're still perfectly fine with the regular $329 iPad.Despite the coronavirus pandemic, which has cost millions of Americans jobs, Apple's iPhone, iPad and Mac sales increased during the fiscal third quarter. People are buying gadgets to help with school, stay in touch with family, work and relax.I expect the new iPad Air, which hits stores Friday, to be a popular choice since it gives you many of the high-end features found on the Pro model for hundreds less.What's goodZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsThe iPad Air is available in five colors.AppleThe iPad Air is an upgrade in pretty much every way from the normal $329 iPad. It has a new design this year, with flat sides and sharper corners, bringing it more in line with the iPad Pro and Apple's new iPhone 12.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsThe fingerprint reader is in the power button.AppleThe iPad Air is easy to hold, the screen is a large 10.9 inches and there's a fingerprint reader that sits right in the power button for quick unlocking. Apple also launched new colors, including blue and green, though I tested a plain silver one.The screen is better than the one on the regular iPad. It gets just as bright and is just as sharp, but it's larger and gets rid of the small air gap between the screen and the glass that's on the more affordable iPad, which I find super annoying. This makes things look clearer, helps with glare and makes stylus input feel more fluid. It's also more colorful and has True Tone, which is Apple's feature that automatically adjusts the screen to keep the colors accurate.Apple New Releases for ios14 on Apple productsSource: Apple Inc.Also new this year: the iPad Air works with the better second-generation Apple Pencil that, like on the iPad Pro, attaches to the side of the iPad Air to charge. The pencil is easier to hold, more convenient for charging and feels better on the screen than the first-generation Apple Pencil, which works on the base model iPad.A new feature in iPadOS 14 is really fun: you can use the pencil to write in any text box, whether it's in an email, a group chat on iMessage or a URL in the web browser. It seems silly, but I liked using it for jotting out messages to friends instead of trying to stretch my hands across the screen. And the handwriting recognition is pretty good most of the time ... until I got tired and my handwriting turned to gibberish. The Air also works with Apple's Magic Keyboard, which is the best tablet keyboard. It's $299, which is almost the cost of the entry-level iPad and super expensive, but it's easy to type on and use.2020 iPad AirTodd Haselton | CNBCI bought one for my iPad Pro when it launched and, even though my work system isn't compatible with the iPad, I use it all the time for emails, web surfing and Slack. If all the apps you need for work are available for iPad, this turns it into a real computer.2020 iPad AirTodd Haselton | CNBCThe iPad Air has Apple's newest and fastest A14 Bionic processor, the same that's in Apple's iPhone 12. I don't really see a huge difference between the performance of it and the A12 Bionic in the regular iPad for apps and games, but I think developers will start to take more advantage of it and we'll see more impressive games in the coming years.iPad Air 2020Todd Haselton | CNBCBattery life was great. I was able to get a full day of use if I had it on straight through, but usually it lasted a couple days when I turned to it more sparingly. I typically use an iPad after the work day is through, and just stream music while watching videos, browsing Twitter and catching up on news. iPadOS, if you haven't used it in a while, is great for running multiple apps side by side.Finally, the front camera for FaceTime video chat on the iPad Air is clearer than the one on the front of the regular iPad. That's important now if you're spending a lot of time on video chat for work or to stay in touch with family. It's kind of funny how the front-facing cameras on iPads are generally better than the 720p cameras on even high-end MacBooks.What's badZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsThe green iPad AirAppleThe fingerprint reader works fine in the power button for unlocking the iPad and buying stuff online through Apple Pay. But the iPad Air doesn't have the more advanced and secure Face ID system that's included in the iPad Pro. Face ID is more convenient for unlocking since you just look at the iPad.Also, without the Face ID sensor, you don't get some of the fun little features, like Animoji or Memoji that react to your facial expressions. It's a small thing, but if you're buying a tablet for your kids they might like that.I wish Apple placed it in the middle of the side instead of at the top: most of the time I'm doing video chats with a keyboard attached or while holding it in landscape mode. That means I need to remember to look to the left of the iPad, instead of the middle where the camera usually is on a laptop.2020 iPad AirTodd Haselton | CNBCThe screen isn't as smooth as the display on the iPad Pro, which has a faster refresh rate to make things like scrolling much smoother. It's not something you'll miss if you've never used it, but I'd love to see it in the iPad Air line at some point.And, another thing you miss from the iPad Pro: there are stereo speakers, which are good. But the iPad Pro has four stereo speakers that offer even better sound. Still, the iPad Air beats the sound you get from the entry-level iPad.And you're going to need to spend a lot of money to take full advantage of the iPad Air. The Magic Keyboard is $299 and the second-generation Apple Pencil is another $129. All-in, that's $1,027.Should you buy the new iPad Air?iPad AirSource: Apple Inc.I think the iPad Air fits great right in the middle of Apple's tablet family. It's a good choice if you don't need everything on an iPad Pro, like the fancy cameras and faster screen, but also want a better screen, speakers and design than you get on the entry-level iPad.And it's great with the keyboard and second-generation Apple Pencil, neither of which work with the standard iPad. I also think it'll keep up longer than a regular iPad will as apps get more powerful.If you just need a tablet for watching movies, to pass off to the kids or to read the news, the regular iPad is great for that. And it's only $329.VIDEO10:0510:05Apple updates mid-range iPad Air with edge-to-edge screenTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/10/11, VIDEO3:5303:53Recode's Kara Swisher: This is Apple's most important iPhone event in yearsSquawk AlleyOn Tuesday, Apple is holding a launch event where it will reveal this year's iPhone lineup. In most years, Apple announces its iPhones in September, and they go on sale shortly after that. This year is different. Apple instead released new Apple Watches last month and pushed the iPhone announcement to October. The delay is an outgrowth of the Covid-19 pandemic, which disrupted electronics manufacturing and forced most Apple employees to work from home. Still, this year's iPhone launch is significant. It is expected to include the first major exterior redesign since 2017, when Apple released the iPhone X with facial recognition. This year's models will feature iPad-like edges with flatter sides, compared with the gently curving sides of the current iPhones. Apple is also expected to release four separate iPhones at different screen sizes and prices -- a much wider range of devices than in the past.Finally, at least some new iPhones will support 5G cellular networks, which promise faster download times (although the networks aren't fully built out yet in the U.S., which could disappoint some users.)The last time Apple made such big changes to the iPhone was 2014, when the iPhone 6 came out with bigger screens and two different sizes. That prompted a major upgrade cycle -- a so-called "super-cycle" -- with over 231 million iPhones sold in the next four quarters. That remained the annual unit sales record until Apple stopped reporting unit sales in 2018. VIDEO6:0406:04Investors on what a new iPhone could do for Apple's stock priceHalftime ReportSo this year's changes have investors and analysts predicting a big upgrade cycle that will make Apple an even more valuable company."We expect this fall's launch to be the most significant iPhone event in years," Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty wrote in a note this week. She's forecasting Apple to ship about 220 million iPhones in its fiscal 2021, which would be up 22% year-over-year according to the Morgan Stanley model.Here's what to look for on Tuesday.Four iPhones, including a new iPhone MiniMorgan Stanley analysts are expecting an iPhone lineup of 4 new devices, including:iPhone 12 Mini, a new device with a 5.4-inch screen. This would be the smallest iPhone since the company debuted full-screen versions (with no blank space at the edges) in 2017, and will probably about the same size as the iPhone 6.iPhone 12, the standard edition with a 6.1-inch screen, the same size as today's.iPhone 12 Pro, also with a 6.1-inch screen but higher specs.Phone 12 Pro Max, which would have the largest screen ever at 6.7 inches (today's iPhone 11 Pro Max tops out at 6.5 inches)Morgan Stanley's expectations are based on information from Apple's supply chain of manufacturers in China. That means the actual names, which are controlled by Apple product marketing in California, may end up being different.Four models would be a dramatic expansion of its lineup, with both a new smaller option and a larger high-end option, giving consumers more choices and potentially spurring people to upgrade.The phones are expected to be visually different from past years' models, giving users another reason to upgrade.In the spring, Apple released a $399 4.7-inch iPhone with a fingerprint sensor, the second-generation iPhone SE, this spring, which is expected to remain the least expensive iPhone after Tuesday's launch. "These 4 new models will accompany the 2nd generation iPhone SE launched in spring 2020 to comprise Apple's most complete lineup of new iPhones ever," Huberty wrote. Currently, Apple sells the $699 iPhone 11 with a 6.1-inch screen, a $999 iPhone 11 Pro with a 5.8-inch screen, and a $1099 iPhone 11 Pro Max with a 6.5-inch screen. Apple may continue selling these models -- typically, it knocks $100 off the price of last year's models and keeps them on store shelves.Different kinds of 5GApple's tagline for the event is "Hi Speed," a reference to the faster cellular speeds promised by 5G phones.Investors and analysts have hoped for years that a 5G iPhone would represent a major upgrade and spur a big wave of sales not only for phone makers like Apple, but also for chip-makers like Qualcomm and carriers like Verizon and T-Mobile, which have bet big on 5G.But some industry leaders are cautious. For instance, AT&T Communications CEO Jeff McElfresh told CNBC in September that he did not believe it would be a "massive event."Some of the impact may be blunted because there are three different varieties of 5G.The biggest jump in speeds will come from the variety of 5G sometimes called millimeter wave or ultrawide band. But in the United States, millimeter wave is only available in certain markets and has limitations about how far it can be transmitted. While carriers are expanding quickly, the new iPhones may only be able to reach their full potential in a handful of regions. AT&T and T-Mobile both currently claim "nationwide 5G," using what's referred to as low-band networks, which have speeds that are closer to the current fourth-generation LTE networks. That may underwhelm consumers who have been looking for a massive improvement. Then there's mid-band 5G, which does promise to be significantly faster and cover wide regions, but is still under construction. T-Mobile said this summer that it hoped to build its mid band network "over the next few years.""Not all 5G is created equal, which has led to marketing noise from carriers regarding 5G performance and deployment," Loup Ventures founder Gene Munster wrote in a newsletter in September. "In the end, both consumers and businesses are left unsure as to the timing of the 5G transformation."Consumers won't know until Tuesday if Apple will support all three versions in all its phones, or if it will offer different models sold in different regions based on which countries have the most developed 5G networks. Sales will start later than usualApple CFO Luca Maestri said this summer that it expected iPhones to go on sale a "few weeks later" than the traditional September launch schedule.It's possible that some models will go on sale shortly after the event while others take a longer time to hit store shelves, most likely due to challenges designing and manufacturing ten of millions of devices during a global pandemic. Last year, ten days elapsed between the launch event and the first iPhones that went on sale."It remains somewhat speculative when exactly iPhones will be available for sale after this event as Apple typically announces the first day of sale during the event," Deutsche Bank analyst Jeriel Ong wrote in a note this past week.Timing matters for investors because Apple's first fiscal quarter has already started, kicking off on September 27. In past years, some new iPhone models have been on sale for the entire period, but this year that won't be possible. The number of weeks in the quarter that the new iPhones are on sale could affect Apple's performance in the critical holiday quarter, as people around the world buy iPhones and other products as holiday gifts.iPhone timing can also suggest which models might be in short supply, which investors watch closely to try and predict average selling prices for the quarter, which affects revenue."We also note that it is possible that certain models could either be more unit volume constrained or the new iPhone launch could be staggered similar to years past, although this possibility appears to be fading, as we have heard less about the potential for further delays recently," Ong wrote. One more thing (or event)The invitation to Apple's event suggests it will last two hours, which is a lot of time to discuss phones. In the past, the company has loved to tease "one more thing" at the end of its events before it introduces a whole new product category.This year, it's likely to be audio products. Apple analyst Ming-Chi Kuo predicted earlier this year that Apple is working on wireless over-the ear headphones that would carry its own brand (instead of Beats), and a smaller and less expensive HomePod speaker -- the current version costs $299.Luxury headphones could entice buyers who have been turned off by the in-ear nature of Apple's current AirPods but want closer wireless integration with the iPhone. A less expensive HomePod would make the product category more competitive with Amazon's Alexa-powered speakers, which often cost less than $100.Adding more credence to this possibility, Apple stopped selling third-party headphones and speakers on its online store earlier this month, mirroring moves made in past years before introducing new products. Apple said earlier this year that Mac computers with chips it designed would start to ship before the end of the year. Current Mac computers use Intel chips. But those computers are likely not going to be discussed on Tuesday, according to a report from Bloomberg. Instead, Apple could save that product for a November launch event, which would be Apple's third of the fall.In past years, Apple has only held one or two fall launch events. But this year's launches are different — they're prerecorded and held virtually due to the pandemic. There is also continuing appetite for Apple launches from customers, media, and fans. Nearly 1.5 million people tuned in to a YouTube livestream last month to watch Apple executives announce new Apple Watches. 

2021/01/05, In this article6088-HKA Byton M-Byte electric sports utility vehicle (SUV) is displayed at the CES 2020 event in Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S., on Sunday, Jan. 5, 2020.Bridget Bennett | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesGUANGZHOU, China — Apple iPhone maker Foxconn has signed a deal with Chinese electric carmaker Byton to help produce its first vehicle.The move marks a big push by Foxconn into auto manufacturing as it tries to diversify its business beyond just assembling consumer electric products.Foxconn, which trades as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. in Taiwan, saw its shares jump over 4% on Tuesday after they closed over 8% higher on Monday.Byton, Foxconn and Nanjing Development Zone signed a strategic cooperation framework agreement on Monday to jointly produce Byton's M-Byte SUV by the first quarter of 2022.Foxconn will provide its expertise in advanced manufacturing technology, operational management experience and will share industrial resources, according to a statement from the companies.The agreement could provide a lifeline for Byton which first revealed the M-Byte in 2018 but has since struggled to ramp up production. The Nanjing, China-based company had to suspend production in July and undergo a reorganization after the coronavirus pandemic hurt the business.For Foxconn, the deal is a way to diversify its business. Last year, Foxconn launched a set of tools that would allow a company to design large parts of an electric car that would be manufactured by the Taiwanese firm. These tools include a chassis as well as software for the vehicle.Foxconn has already been supplying automakers including Tesla with specific components.China's electric vehicle market continues to show strong growth. Electric car start-ups Nio, Li Auto and Xpeng each announced in the last few days that deliveries surged in 2020 to close out the year with new monthly highs.

2020/12/19, In this article6285-TWAAPLThe logo of Wistron, a Taiwanese-run iPhone factory, is seen at Narsapura, about 60 km from Bangalore on Dec. 13, 2020. Authorities vowed to crack down on workers who went on a violent rampage at a Taiwanese-run iPhone factory in southern India over allegations of unpaid wages and exploitation.Manjunath Kiran | AFP | Getty ImagesApple on Saturday said it had placed contract manufacturer Wistron on probation and would not give the Taiwanese firm new business until it took corrective actions following lapses at its southern India plant.Early findings of an Apple audit, which followed violence at the Wistron plant in southern Karnataka state last weekend, show violations of the U.S. tech giant's "Supplier Code of Conduct," Apple said in a statement.Wistron failed to implement proper working hour management processes, which "led to payment delays for some workers in October and November," Apple said.Apple will continue to monitor Wistron's progress on corrective action, the Cupertino-California based company said."Our main objective is to make sure all the workers are treated with dignity and respect, and fully compensated promptly."In a statement earlier on Saturday, Wistron admitted some workers at its plant in Karnataka's Kolar district had not been paid properly and said it was removing a top executive overseeing India business.Contract workers angry over unpaid wages destroyed property, factory gear and iPhones at the plant early on Dec. 12, causing millions of dollars in losses to the Taiwanese contract manufacturer and forcing it to shut the plant.The plant — located some 50 km outside of the southern tech hub of Bengaluru — assembles one iPhone model, and became operational earlier this year."This is a new facility and we recognise that we made mistakes as we expanded," Wistron said in the statement. "Some of the processes we put in place to manage labor agencies and payments need to be strengthened and upgraded."Wistron could not cope with the rapid scaling up of manpower and breached several laws at this factory, according to an inspection of the plant by Karnataka state officials following the violence.

2020/10/29, Apple CEO Tim Cook reveals the new iPhone 12.SourceApple reported earnings on Thursday and investors did not like the results. Apple stock dropped as much 5% in extended trading even though the company beat Wall Street expectations for both profit and revenue.The drop was likely because iPhone revenue came in at $26.4 billion, which was 20% lower than the same quarter last year.Apple sales in China also suffered, mainly because of weak iPhone sales, Apple said. Revenue from China dropped to $7.95 billion from $11.13 billion a year before, a 29% decrease.But the iPhone sales situation isn't as bad as it looks. This year, Apple's new iPhones went on sale about a month later than before, as Apple telegraphed over the summer.So the iPhone weakness may be partly because people were waiting for the new iPhone 12, which didn't go on sale until October. In fact, both Apple CEO Tim Cook and CFO Luca Maestri said that iPhone customer demand was strong and grew until mid-September — when Apple typically releases new iPhones."This is a very impressive level of performance when we consider that this year we did not launch and ship any new iPhone models during the quarter," Apple CFO Luca Maestri said about Apple's fiscal fourth-quarter, which ended in September.Apple presented several supporting points on Thursday:Demand was higher than last year during the first part of the quarter. Through mid-September, when Apple held a launch event with new Apple Watches but no new iPhones, demand for iPhone 11 models "grew double digits and was well above our expectations," said Maestri.Cook went into more detail: "If you look at iPhone and you look at it in two parts, one pre-mid-September which is pre- the point at which the previous year we would have launched iPhone, that period of time which is the bulk of the quarter, iPhone was growing from a customer demand point of view and of course the not shipping new iPhones for the last two weeks of September makes that number in the aggregate a negative," Cook said.Growth expected in the holiday quarter. Apple expects iPhone revenue to grow in the December quarter — despite the fact that the new iPhone 12 models were launched 4 weeks into the quarter and two new iPhone models haven't gone on sale yet. Last year Apple reported $55.96 billion in iPhone sales in the period.China also expected to grow. "Greater China is a region that was most heavily impacted by the absence of the new iPhones during the September quarter. Still, we beat our internal expectations in the region, and iPhone customer demand grew through mid-September," Cook said.Cook then said that he expects China revenue to grow in the December quarter."A larger percentage of China revenue is made up of new iPhones. And so that's the reason the number for the total quarter started with a minus sign. But given what we see in the early going with the new iPhones, we're confident we'll grow in Q1," Cook told CNBC's Josh Lipton in an interview. Supply constraints. Apple says that it is "supply constrained" for iPhones, which means that they are selling faster than Apple can make them.VIDEO0:3600:36Apple beats top and bottom line but iPhone revenues miss estimatesClosing Bell

2020/10/26, A customer exits after picking up Apple's new 5G iPhone 12 that went on sale, as the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak continues, at an Apple Store in Brooklyn, New York, October 23, 2020.Brendan McDermid | Reuters(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only.)Apple reports earnings on Thursday and Wall Street is bullish on the stock despite uncertainty about sales guidance due to the delayed iPhone event.

2020/12/18, A view outside a Kohl's store in Miramar, Florida.Johnny Louis | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2020/10/26, In this articleFBFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.Andrew Caballero-Reynolds | AFP | Getty ImagesFacebook announced on Monday the launch of cloud gaming on its desktop website and Android app but said it's unable to bring the games to iOS due to Apple's "arbitrary" policies.Facebook's web and Android users can try free-to-play games in seconds without leaving the social network. Users play a game that's streamed from Facebook's data centers without having to first download the game onto their devices. The idea is similar to services offered by Microsoft and Google, but without the console-quality games offered by those services.The exclusion of Apple devices from Facebook cloud gaming is the latest shot fired in a long-running feud between the companiesThe war of words dates to a comment by Apple CEO Tim Cook in March 2018, criticizing the social network's handling of user privacy after the Cambridge Analytica scandal that resulted in the data of 87 million Facebook users being improperly accessed.Since then, the companies have continued to duke it out, with Facebook recently calling into question Apple's App Store policies as Washington lawmakers and regulators look into probes and hold antitrust hearings involving Big Tech, including the iPhone maker. Apple's guidelines, which the company uses to determine which apps it approves or rejects, doesn't allow applications that act like third-party app stores. It prohibits apps that distribute software as the "main purpose" of the app and bars code that is offered "in a store or store-like interface."Last month, Apple adjusted its guidelines around gaming services, saying that apps could offer a subscription to multiple games, but each game needs to be approved by Apple and offered in its own app.Facebook could bring cloud gaming to iOS if it enables the new product on the mobile web version of its service, but the company wants users to go to its apps instead, said Jason Rubin, Facebook's vice president of special gaming initiatives. "We don't want people going to web Facebook 20 times a day. We have a great app," Rubin said. "We would have to use Apple's technology and browser on iOS, and that isn't optimized to the benefit of cloud games."Facebook cloud gaming on iOS would allow iPhone and iPad users to find out what games their friends are playing, see lists that show top games on Facebook or play games with Facebook-unique features, Rubin said. "In many ways, consumers are being hampered," Rubin said. Apple allows software developers to bring cloud games to iOS by submitting each game to the App Store as an individual app, Apple told CNBC. Developers can also deliver cloud gaming via the Safari browser, Apple said. Apple has continued to engage with Facebook to provide them with helpful feedback on how to get their apps to comply with the iOS App Store's guidelines, Apple said.Rubin responded on Twitter to Apple's claims after this story ran."Apple claimed to offer us 'helpful feedback' in this story," Rubin said. "Responding to multiple requests for approval of our iOS cloud concepts with ''this fails under policy' is better than the radio silence we have experienced at times in the past, but that's hardly 'helpful feedback,'" he said.The official Facebook Gaming account also took a jab at Apple on Twitter: "You'll just need the Facebook app on Android. iOS won't work for now. Because, Apple (sigh.)." Facebook's strategy vs. Google, Amazon and MicrosoftZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsThe games are not console quality or even on a par with cloud-gaming subscription services like Google Stadia, Amazon Luna or Microsoft's xCloud. They're versions of mobile games you can already download on a phone or tablet. They include titles like "Asphalt 9: Legends," which is a 3D racer, and "PGA TOUR Golf Shootout," a 3D golfing game. Users will be able to play the free games using their touchscreens or mouse and keyboards."We think this will expand very quickly because we're not charging up front and you don't need to have a controller," Rubin said. Facebook's launch of cloud gaming comes less than a year after it spent a reported $78 million to acquire PlayGiga, a Spanish cloud-gaming start-up. An estimated 380 million monthly users already play simple HTML5 games on Facebook, but these cloud games will bolster the quality of the social network's gaming catalog. Cloud games should provide Facebook a two-fold benefit. Better games could drive more users to spend more time on Facebook, increasing the company's average revenue per user — a key metric in the company's quarterly earnings results.Additionally, developers who add their games to Facebook will be able to advertise playable demos of those games. This allows developers to promote their games to a huge audience, allows users to play full games within advertisements and creates yet another ad product for Facebook, which relies on advertising for more than 98% of its revenue. "With this new format, we can now support interactive demos from a game's native code, blurring the line between games and ads," the company said in a blog post. Facebook will also make some money from in-game purchases. When Facebook users make a micro-purchase through a cloud game, 30% of revenue will go to Facebook and 70% will go to the game developers. For purchases made on Android, Facebook will not take a cut and instead its 30% will go to Google. "We would be willing to give the 30% to Apple, that is not what's holding us up," Rubin said. "What's holding us up is we're not allowed to do the things that we're doing on Android."Facebook cloud gaming will begin rolling out this week to users in California, Texas, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and Washington D.C. — all regions located near a Facebook data center, Rubin said. The company hopes to expand availability in the coming months.--CNBC's Kif Leswing contributed to this report.VIDEO4:0804:08Facebook's former chief privacy officer on possible antitrust suit against FacebookSquawk Box

2020/11/06, Apple CEO Tim Cook pose next to an image of the new iPhone 11.Kena Betancur | AFP | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only.)A handful of strong earnings results from Apple's biggest suppliers are a good sign for the iPhone maker's demand picture, according to Morgan Stanley.The Wall Street firm's Apple analyst Katy Huberty — the 2020 No. 1 ranked technology analyst by Institutional Investor — said seven of Apple's semiconductor suppliers reported strong quarterly revenue in the past two weeks and gave robust outlooks for the fourth quarter.

2020/10/20, In this articleAAPLiPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12.Todd Haselton | CNBCI've been testing Apple's new $799 iPhone 12 and $999 iPhone 12 Pro for almost a week. They support newer and faster 5G networks and have better cameras, great screens and an updated design. Most people should choose the iPhone 12. Buy the iPhone 12 Pro if you want a few extra camera tricks.Both phones launch on Friday, Oct. 23, and will be followed by the iPhone 12 Mini and iPhone 12 Pro Max in November. I haven't tested those models yet. If they sound appealing to you, then you might want to wait another month before making your final decision.The iPhone 12 launch is a big deal for Apple. Bullish analysts think the company will enter a new "iPhone super cycle." An estimated 30% or more of iPhone owners are using a phone that's at least three years old. This means about 420 million iPhone owners will be ready to upgrade in 2021, according to Loup Ventures.These are also the first iPhones with 5G, which matters if you're buying a phone you plan to use for a few years, even if 5G isn't fully available in the U.S. yet. And it's important for Apple in other countries where 5G is more mature, such as China, where Apple competes with Huawei.But there's a bear case, too. We're in the middle of a global pandemic, and jobless claims in the U.S. jumped again on Oct. 15. Economic uncertainty could push people to hold off on buying a new phone. But Apple sold more Macs, iPads and iPhones than expected during its fiscal third quarter. So we know people were still buying gadgets in the first few months of the pandemic.Before we get to the phones: What you should know about 5GVIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the StreetThe iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro are the first iPhones to support 5G networks. Before I talk about the phones, I should explain 5G, since carriers and Apple are using it as the key selling point. As you've probably heard, 5G is still in its early days, and there's a good chance you won't be able to use it to its full potential yet.The new iPhones support all kinds of 5G, including the fastest networks in the U.S. But 5G is super confusing right now, so I'll explain what's going on.First, the 5G speeds you see will entirely depend on where you're using the phone. The common 5G network most people will see most often right now is sometimes faster than LTE. It can also sometimes be slower than 4G LTE. But, as long as you're on 5G, the iPhone 12 will let you do things that earlier iPhones needed Wi-Fi for.That meant FaceTime in HD, which was noticeably clearer than over LTE. It'll also download software updates and play videos from the Apple TV app at the highest possible quality. Anyway, this is the sort of experience you should mostly expect right now if you're covered by 5G.Some of the 5G tests on the iPhone, compared to Wi-Fi in a few cases.Todd Haselton | CNBCThen there's another flavor of faster 5G that's still being built out but will eventually offer speeds many times faster than 4G LTE both indoors and outdoors. This is when you'll see big differences in movie and TV show download times and when 5G will really start to matter. I think I ran into some of T-Mobile's new network in Livingston, New Jersey, where I saw speeds about twice as fast as I did at home on slower 5G.Fast 5G speeds on Verizon's mmWave network in New York City. Tested on a Samsung Galaxy S20 Ultra.Todd Haselton | CNBCAnd finally there's the really fast 5G that's bragged about the most. Verizon is the most bullish on this, though T-Mobile and AT&T are also building it. It's mostly in cities. I've tested in Manhattan on other phones when I was able to download movies and TV shows in seconds but didn't come across it on the iPhone 12 in the New Jersey suburbs, where it has yet to roll out.5G antennas in Manhattan.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe fastest flavor of 5G is as finicky as it is speedy: You need to be outside and basically on the same street corner as the tower. It'll matter one day for things that need really fast and low-latency connections, like maybe if self-driving cars ever launch and need to stop on a dime. But, for now, consider yourself lucky if you happen to have it in your backyard. Otherwise it's a bit like a treasure hunt trying to find it, and it doesn't matter much for most people.You need to be in a very specific place for the fastest 5G. Here, Verizon's mmwave in Manhattan.VerizonMostly, we're still waiting for developers to show us what we can do with 5G. One thing I'm excited for is cloud gaming. Amazon's new Luna service will let you stream popular console games to your iPhone, for example. Apple hasn't yet worked out deals with Google and Microsoft to allow their competing services in their current form, though.The good news is you don't really have to worry about 5G on the iPhone. It has an auto-detect option that will use 5G most of the time but can smartly switch to 4G LTE if you're doing something like streaming music in your pocket and it thinks 5G will hurt battery life.The iPhone 12, by default, will save battery by switching between 5G and 4G LTE as needed.Todd Haselton | CNBCI didn't see this happen, since it does this when the screen isn't on. You can always just force your phone to stay on 5G or on 4G LTE, too, in case 4G LTE is still faster where you live. (Pro tip: I use the SpeedTest app to try this. Make sure your Wi-Fi is off.)So, that's 5G. The bottom line is you don't have to worry about it too much now, but you'll be in a good spot in a few years once the networks are more capable.The iPhone 12 is for most of usI love the blue iPhone 12.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro are more alike than the iPhone 11 and iPhone 11 Pro. I often had a hard time telling the new models apart until I looked at the cameras on the back.iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe first thing you'll notice on the new iPhones is the super bright and colorful screen. It's probably one of the highlight features outside of 5G. And, this year, Apple gave the regular iPhone 12 an OLED screen, instead of the LCD panel it used on the iPhone 11.The iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Max have amazing screens. Here, "Mad Max: Fury Road" in HDR.Todd Haselton | CNBCIt's just way, way better than LCD and matters for things such as viewing pictures, playing games and watching movies. A scene in "Mad Max: Fury Road" where a car explodes in a dust storm really stood out, since the orange flames contrast so well against the black smoke in the sky. The stereo speakers are great for watching movies, too. They sound full and get really loud.iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12.Todd Haselton | CNBCI love the new blue color I reviewed. The iPhone 12 also comes in pale green, red, black and white. It has a premium feel, and is made from glass and aluminum. I love how light it is without feeling cheap.I asked Apple about the throwback design, which is similar to 2010's iPhone 4 (and the current iPad Pro and iPad Air) with flat edges and sharper corners. Apple said it helps the phone's durability if it drops. And while I didn't drop the phone to find out, Apple also claims the new "Ceramic Shield" glass on the front is four times more resistant to damage from drops. The iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro are more water resistant and can survive under 6 meters of water for up to 30 minutes. I don't shower with my phones, but you could if you wanted to.iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 mini.Source: AppleMost new phones have excellent cameras. Google and Samsung phones always impress me. But it comes down to personal preference, and I still prefer the pictures and videos from an iPhone.iPhone 12Todd Haselton | CNBCI took the iPhone 12 out for a walk in the park over the weekend and loved how both the regular wide-angle and the ultra-wide-angle lenses captured lots of detail and accurate colors, from the hair on my dog Mabel to trees against a deep blue sky.A sample of the iPhone 12 ultra-wide camera.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe front-facing selfie camera is still great, but you can see here it missed one arm of my sunglasses.A portrait selfie from the iPhone 12.Apple improved pictures shot at night, too, and also offers better selfies without flash even if it's really dark out. Sometimes they were still a little blurry, though, so get a tripod or prop your iPhone on something sturdy to avoid that. Portrait shots in the day still look the best. My dog, Mabel, for example:My dog Mabel riding in the bottom of a stroller.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro are the first phones to support recording video in "Dolby Vision" HDR. I didn't think it was a big deal until I tried it. Video recorded in HDR at 4K and 30 frames per second looks great. Dolby Vision helped brighten areas that were otherwise washed out or dark, even in my relatively dim living room with a few table lamps. You don't have to think about it or fiddle with settings, though, your videos will just look better. The iPhone 12 Pro supports Dolby Video HDR at 4K and a smoother 60 frames per second.Battery life is great. I took the iPhone 12 off the charger at about 7:34 a.m. and it still had a 51% charge at 5 p.m. That's with a lot of use on 5G networks and the screen at about 75% brightness. I think light users will get through more than a day of use before having to charge, though I still regularly charge my iPhone at night when I go to bed and Apple promises a full day of use. That's impressive for such a thin phone and, if you need it, you can get up to a 50% charge in 30 minutes with a 20-watt charger.iPhone 12.Todd Haselton | CNBCFinally, the iPhone 12 feels really fast. It has a new A14 Bionic processor that helps with all sorts of things, like opening large games quicker than my iPhone 11 Pro Max to improving the photos and videos.iPhone 12 ProTodd Haselton | CNBCI didn't run into anything that felt sluggish on the iPhone. Games looked about as good as they did on my iPhone 11, although developers can probably make them even better with the added graphics performance. But it's still pretty wild how some games, like "Genshin Impact" have huge worlds with great graphics.Now for some bad news.There's no plug in the box, just the cable with a new type of connector at the bottom based on USB-C. Apple says it's doing this to cut down its carbon footprint.The more cynical take: Apple's decision not to include the plug forces you to buy a new one from the company because it has that USB-C connector, not the regular USB port you're used to seeing on Apple's plugs since 2007. There's a small chance you have the necessary USB-C plug already in your house, or a computer with USB-C ports that can charge the phone. This is a great way for Apple to boost its revenue by about $20 for most iPhone 12s it sells. But it's a bad experience for you.So what should you buy so you can actually charge your new iPhone 12? I recommend you get Apple's $20 20-watt USB-C power adapter or Anker's similarly priced 20-watt charger from Amazon.The iPhone 12 Pro adds a bit moreThe Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max is unveiled during a virtual product launch.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesTake everything I talked about with the iPhone 12 and then add a few things and you have the iPhone 12 Pro.iPhone 12 ProTodd Haselton | CNBCThe iPhone 12 Pro is made out of steel instead of aluminum, which is heavier but looks a bit nicer. The back is matte and doesn't attract fingerprints like the iPhone 12.iPhone 12 Pro.Todd Haselton | CNBCThere's an extra telephoto lens that works great. It helps you zoom in without losing quality in your pictures. And speaking of pictures, the new lidar sensor helps with depth, which means even more accurate portrait shots, where the background is blurred and the subject is in focus.That means you can take pictures like this wide-angle:The regular wide-angle lens on the iPhone 12 Pro.Todd Haselton | CNBCAnd this ultra-wide:An ultra-wide angle picture shot with the iPhone 12 Pro.Todd Haselton | CNBCAnd this 2x telephoto, which you don't get on the iPhone 12:iPhone 12 Pro telephoto lens at 2x zoomTodd Haselton | CNBCAnd the iPhone 12 Pro has support for portrait pictures at night, something the iPhone 12 lacks. It worked well when I tested it with a clock in my office at night. It was almost completely dark, but the iPhone still took this picture without flash:A night portrait shot on the iPhone 12 Pro. This room is very dark but the iPhone brightens it.Todd Haselton | CNBCIt's not perfect, though. Notice the handle of the clock is still blurry. Here's another night portrait picture of flowers. Again, it was totally dark outside:I took a picture of these flowers at night when it was totally dark out. No flash.Todd Haselton | CNBCThat lidar sensor does double duty for augmented reality. AR lets you drop digital objects on top of the real world.The Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max LiDAR camera is unveiled.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesSometimes it's really cool, like if you're using Wayfair to buy furniture and want to know if a couch will fit in your room before you buy it.AR doesn't look real, but it can bring digital things into your room.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe lidar sensor quickly generates a mesh map of the room you're in, so you can accurately place a painting, drop a pool table in your kitchen or a tile swatch on the wall to see if something fits.Using Wayfair to see if a pool table will fit in my kitchen. It kinda does.Todd Haselton | CNBCThe regular iPhone 12, which doesn't have a lidar sensor, makes you wave your phone's camera around the room for about 10 seconds before you can plop an object down.And the lidar sensor helps with accuracy for things such as measuring. I used it on a measuring tape to check its accuracy and it nailed it. This is useful if you want to use your iPhone's measuring app to see the length, width or height of something.The iPhone 12 Pro measure app is accurate by my test.Todd Haselton | CNBCI don't think anyone can top Apple when it comes to video recording on a phone. The Dolby Vision HDR support I talked about on the regular iPhone 12 works at up to 60 frames per second, which means even smoother 4K recording while maintaining the really good accuracy between bright and dark parts of your scene. People who film and edit with their iPhones will dig this. Normal folks might not care about the added smoothness on the 12 Pro, but they'll get a version of it in the regular iPhone 12, too.Speaking of HDR, the screen gets a bit brighter on the iPhone 12 Pro than it does on the iPhone 12, but only when HDR is in use. So, it has a greater peak brightness when needed.I didn't see a discernible difference in battery life between the iPhone 12 and the iPhone 12 Pro, likely because they share so many of the same components. Expect all-day battery life.The Apple iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Pro Max are unveiled.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesLastly, if you want a larger 6.7-inch screen, then you have to get the iPhone 12 Pro Max. It'll ship in November, when the smaller iPhone 12 Mini also launches.MagSafe for the iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 ProApple announces MagSafeSource: Apple Inc.The iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro use a fun new "MagSafe" magnetic accessory system. The name was first used back when Apple's MacBook chargers had magnets that held them in place.Clear MagSafe case on iPhone 12 Pro.Todd Haselton | CNBCMagSafe is used for wireless charging and for sticking accessories to the back of your iPhone. The iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro still work with regular wireless charging pads, but they'll juice up twice as fast — 15 watts instead of 7.5 watts — with the MagSafe charger. It magnetically sticks to the back of the phone.iPhone 12 with MagSafe wireless charging.Todd Haselton | CNBCMagSafe works well, though I wish the charging puck didn't slide off tables so easily. Apple partners such as Belkin are building some pretty nice stands, though, and Apple says more MagSafe products are coming.iPhone 12 Pro with MagSafe wallet on the back.Todd Haselton | CNBCApple's new cases work with MagSafe, too, so the wireless charging puck still attaches even if you have a case on. You can attach things like a new leather wallet to the back of the iPhone 12, though I found that the magnet wasn't strong enough to keep the wallet on while it was sliding around in in my pocket.The MagSafe charging puck.Todd Haselton | CNBCOh, and the MagSafe charger works with older iPhones that have wireless charging, they just don't attach magnetically.iPhone 12 charging on MagSafe charger.Todd Haselton | CNBCMagSafe is a fun new system. It'll probably help drive accessory revenue even more for Apple. I'm excited to see what Apple and its partners bring in the future.Should you buy the iPhone 12 or iPhone 12 Pro?iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12.Todd Haselton | CNBCI think most people shopping for a phone right now should choose the iPhone 12, and I expect that will be the most popular model. It's the one I ordered, though part of me wonders if maybe I'll like the bigger iPhone 12 Pro Max better. We'll see when that launches in November.The iPhone 12 has great cameras, an awesome screen, excellent battery life and future-proofs you with 5G. If you want some extra camera tricks, lidar for augmented reality and better portrait photos, and a more premium design, check out the iPhone 12 Pro. If you want something smaller, maybe wait for the $699 iPhone 12 Mini. Likewise, wait for the $1,099 iPhone 12 Pro Max if you want even better zoom cameras and a bigger screen. I'm excited to check those out.iPhone 11Todd Haselton | CNBCIf you want to save money, consider the $599 iPhone 11, which is still great but doesn't have as nice of a screen, the latest processor or 5G. This year's iPhone SE is an awesome tiny phone if you don't want to spend much more than $400.VIDEO4:2804:28Is iPhone 12's 5G feature enough to get consumers to upgrade?Squawk BoxSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/12/17, Signage is displayed outside a Yum! Brands Inc. Taco Bell restaurant in Lockport, Illinois.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2020/10/21, iOS 14 logo of the iOS mobile operating system is seen displayed on a mobile phone with an Apple logo in the background.Pavlo Gonchar | LightRocket | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only.)The long-expected antitrust lawsuit against Google could inflict some collateral damage on its partner Apple, according to Bank of America.The Justice Department on Tuesday filed a lawsuit against Google alleging the company has unlawfully maintained a monopoly in search. To secure preset default and other access to the browser on Apple devices, Google pays a significant licensing fee to the iPhone maker, which is estimated at $10 billion a year, Bank of America noted. This revenue source for Apple, about 15% of its total services sales, could be at risk due to the lawsuit, the bank said.

2020/10/06, Tim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple, speaks at the 2019 Dreamforce conference in San Francisco on November 19, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust's groundbreaking report on Big Tech said Apple has "monopoly power" over software distribution on iPhones, which allows it to generate large profits from the App Store and extract rents from developers. The 450-page report from the Democratic majority is the culmination of a 16-month investigation that also examined competitive practices at Amazon, Facebook and Google and included the CEOs of the four giants testifying over videoconference in August. The report, released Tuesday, recommends that dominant technology platforms, including Apple, be barred from entering "adjacent lines of business" and should not be allowed to give preference to their own services or products. But the report is also complimentary of Apple in some places: It also noted that Apple's mobile ecosystem has produced significant benefits to consumers and app developers. If these recommendations eventually become law, it could force big technology companies to change core business practices, including for Apple changing how it distributes its own apps through the App Store or which products or services it decides to develop."We have always said that scrutiny is reasonable and appropriate but we vehemently disagree with the conclusions reached in this staff report with respect to Apple," Apple said in a statement. "Our company does not have a dominant market share in any category where we do business."In an interview in September, Apple CEO Tim Cook said he hoped the company could "unpeel" from antitrust investigations and that he believes Apple doesn't have a dominant market share in smartphones. The report says Apple has about 45% of the market for smartphones in the United States. SEE ALSO: Facebook is a social network monopoly that buys, copies or kills competitors, antitrust committee findsGoogle 'overwhelmingly' dominates search market, antitrust committee findsAmazon bullies partners and vendors, says antitrust subcommitteeLooking at the market for iPhone appsBut the report defines a different relevant market: Instead of looking at smartphones overall, it looks at the distribution of software apps on iOS devices.The authors of the report looked at Apple's control of its App Store, the only way for consumers to install apps or software on an iPhone, along with its proclivity to buy smaller technology companies and turn them into features for its products. The authors found that Apple enjoys monopoly power over the distribution of software apps on iOS devices. Specific points include the following:High switching costs. The report says that people don't often switch from iPhones to Android phones, which makes distribution on Apple devices its own market because it does not need to fear that developers or consumers will abandon their iPhones."Apple's market power is durable due to high switching costs, ecosystem lock-in, and brand loyalty," the report says. "It is unlikely there will be successful market entry to contest the dominance of iOS and Android."Excluding rivals. The report found that Apple uses its control to exclude rivals and give its own apps and services a boost, including tweaking the search results for the App Store to promote its own apps, and using the App Store to boot competitors when it released competing products. It points to when Apple released Screen Time, a feature for iPhones that parents could use to monitor their children's usage of phones and tablets.Developers of parental control software complained after the feature was released that they were excluded from the lucrative market of iPhone owners, and the apps were reinstated after media attention. "Here, Apple's monopoly power over app distribution enabled it to exclude rivals to the benefit of Screen Time," according to the report.Finding reasons to remove competitors. At one point, the report says that a former director of Apple's review process said in an interview that Apple senior executives would find "pretextual reasons" to remove apps from the App Store, especially when they competed with Apple services. The report does not elaborate or give an example. "Supra-normal profits." The report also focuses on Apple's 30% cut from in-app purchases made on an iPhone. It found that the company has become more insistent that developers use in-app purchases as the company's services business, which includes the App Store, becomes a driver of growth and profits. "Apple's monopoly power over app distribution on iPhones permits the App Store to generate supra-normal profits. These profits are derived by extracting rents from developers, who either pass on price increases to consumers, or reduce investments in innovative new services," the authors write. Sherlocking. The report also examines how Apple often releases products or features that replicate what top app makers sell on the App Store, a topic that it correctly notes has a nickname among programmers for Apple products: Sherlocking.The Democratic staff cites former Apple CEO Steve Jobs saying that the company has "always been shameless about stealing great ideas" as evidence that Apple monitors its app store to copy the best ideas and incorporate them into the iPhone. It alleges, citing app developers, that Apple uses the App Store to collect sensitive business data that it can use to compete with third-party developers unfairly. VIDEO1:2101:21House antitrust subcommittee releases recommendations for Big TechClosing Bell

2020/10/23, Customers at the Apple Store in George Street look at the new iPhone 12 on sale on October 23, 2020 in Sydney, Australia.James D. Morgan | Getty ImagesYour new iPhone 12 comes without a wall plug in the box.Yes, that's annoying. And yes, that means you'll need to drop $19 on a plug that works with the new type of cable that comes with the iPhone 12 to enable faster charging. (Don't worry, you can still keep your old iPhone's plug and charging cord and it'll work with the new iPhone 12.)Despite Apple's claim that the absence of the plug was a pro-environment move, it's on track to see an uptick in its hardware accessories and wearables category thanks to the sale of the plugs and the new ecosystem it's building around the iPhone 12's MagSafe charging system.That category, which includes products such as the Apple Watch, AirPods, chargers and other accessories, has already shown promising growth. Sales jumped nearly 17% to $6.45 billion in Apple's fiscal third quarter. Apple is scheduled to report its fiscal fourth-quarter results on Oct. 29, but it won't reflect sales of the iPhone 12 and related products, which went on sale Friday.Accessories and wearables are following a similar story we've seen with Apple's services business, which includes digital products such as streaming music and iCloud storage. With iPhone sales no longer showing growth, Apple has come up with new digital products to leverage more out of its user base of about 1 billion iPhone users. Apple generated $13.16 billion in services revenue for the fiscal third quarter, up nearly 15% from the year before.Between the missing plug ($19), missing wired earphones (wireless AirPods start at $159) and the new MagSafe charger ($39) for the iPhone 12, Apple is poised to see a significant boost in accessory sales this quarter. On top of that, Apple has a new $99 version of the HomePod speaker that goes on sale next month and the Apple Watch is cheaper than ever, starting at $199.Deutsche Bank analysts picked up on that potential growth in a research note earlier this week."While [Apple] claims that they are not shipping earphones and a charging cube with the iPhone to save the environment (they are including a charging cord), the reality is that such a decision could drive a financial benefit for the company as well," the Deutsche Bank analysts wrote.Looking beyond the near-term sales of the iPhone 12, Apple's new magnetic charging system, MagSafe, is laying the groundwork for even more accessories for the iPhone. There have long been rumors that Apple's ultimate goal is to remove the charging port in the iPhone, like it did for the standard headphone jack, which will in turn drive iPhone owners to buy even more extras for their devices.Maybe Apple is sincere when it says removing standard accessories from the iPhone box is good for the environment. When you're shipping tens of millions of iPhones per quarter with less packaging and plastic, there's sure to be a positive impact on the environment. But at that scale, it also drives iPhone customers to buy more high-margin extras from Apple so they can get the most out of their iPhone. And that keeps revenues growing.VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the Street

2020/12/15, In this articlePRVLGSThe Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max is unveiled during a virtual product launch.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines in midday trading.Apple — Apple shares rose more than 3% after Nikkei reported the tech giant will ramp up its iPhone production by about 30% in the first half of 2021. The report also said that the tech giant has shared a preliminary plan with suppliers that calls for 20% more iPhones for the full year than in 2019, before the pandemic. Apple did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.Eli Lilly — Shares of the drug maker gained 3% after the company announced a deal to acquire Prevail Therapeutics in an all-cash deal worth roughly $1 billion. Ely Lilly also announced a 15% increase in its dividend. Shares of Prevail jumped more than 80%.Bristol-Myers Squibb — Shares of the drug maker popped more than 2.5% after Goldman Sachs added Bristol-Myers to its "Conviction List." Goldman analysts said they see the company's pipeline data driving "upward estimate revisions and multiple expansion."Baidu —Shares of Baidu rallied more than 10% after Reuters reports the company is considering making its own electric vehicles. The Chinese search engine giant already operates a unit that develops autonomous driving and internet connectivity technology.RealReal – Shares of RealReal surged more than 9% after Piper Sandler initiated coverage on the luxury consignment platform with an overweight rating. The Wall Street firm said it's optimistic that consignment activity will rebound as the economy reopens with the vaccine rollout. The stock is down more than 10% this year.Chewy – Shares of Chewy jumped more than 5% after Chief Financial Officer Mario Marte told the Wall Street Journal that the pet retailer plans to build out its online catalog to boost orders. Marte also said the company is working to expand its telehealth service and begin monetize it soon. Shares of Chewy have soared more than 200% in 2020.Zynga — The video game stock added 1.6% after Wells Fargo upgraded Zynga to overweight from equal weight. The investment firm said in a note that the November sell-off after Zynga's third-quarter earnings report was "overdone."Deere — Shares of the farming equipment manufacturer rose more than 2% after Oppenheimer initiated the stock with an outperform rating. The Wall Street firm said it sees agricultural fundamentals improving.Marriott International, Hilton — Marriott and Hilton rose 1.3% and 0.5%, respectively, after a Citi analyst upgraded the hotel operators to buy from neutral, noting the industry "is on the cusp of a multiyear recovery."— with reporting from CNBC's Fred Imbert, Jesse Pound, Yun Li.

2020/12/15, VIDEO0:4900:49Wall Street points to higher open following Monday's mixed sessionMorning ReportTake a look at some of the biggest movers in the premarket:Eli Lilly (LLY) – The drugmaker announced a deal to buy Prevail Therapeutics (PRVL) for $880 million or $22.50 per share, with Prevail shareholders also receiving a "contingent value right" worth up to $4 per share subject to future regulatory approvals of Prevail drugs. Separately, Eli Lilly increased its quarterly dividend to 85 cents per share from 74 cents, a 15% increase. Lilly also raised its full-year earnings forecast. Prevail jumped 86% in premarket trading as of 7:38 a.m. ET. Eli Lilly shares gained 2%.Bristol-Myers (BMY) – Goldman Sachs added the drugmaker's stock to its "Conviction List," on expectations of a number of Food and Drug Administration approvals as well as pipeline data that should drive up earnings estimates. Bristol shares added 2% in premarket trading as of 7:38 a.m. ET.WPP (WPP) – WPP will restate its financial results from 2017 to 2019, but the world's biggest advertising firm said headline operating profit and cash flow would not be impacted. WPP said its method of presenting certain cash measures and hedges did not meet normal accounting standards for those years.Baidu (BIDU) – Baidu is considering making its own electric vehicles, according to people with knowledge of the matter who spoke to Reuters. The Chinese search engine giant already operates a unit that develops autonomous driving and internet connectivity technology. The shares gained 4% in premarket trading as of 7:38 a.m. ET.Apple (AAPL) – Apple plans to ramp up iPhone production to 96 million for the first half of 2021, according to the Nikkei Asia news service citing a sales forecast that Apple shared with suppliers. That would be an increase of nearly 30 percent over the same period in 2020.Moderna (MRNA) – Moderna said some documents related to the submission of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate for European approval were accessed in a cyberattack on the European Medicines Agency. The drugmaker said the documents did not identify any individual study participants. Separately, the Food and Drug Administration said Moderna's Covid vaccine data meets expectations for emergency use.Regeneron Pharmaceuticals (REGN) – Regeneron is temporarily halting enrollment in a clinical trial for an experimental lymphoma treatment. That comes after the FDA requested changes in trial protocols.Pinterest (PINS) – Pinterest will pay $22.5 million to settle gender bias and retaliation claims brought against the image-sharing company by former Chief Operating Officer Francoise Brougher. Pinterest did not admit any liability in agreeing to the settlement.Ameriprise Financial (AMP) – Ameriprise is among the bidders considering second-round bids for the asset management arm of Wells Fargo (WFC), according to a Bloomberg report. Private-equity firms GTCR and Reverence Capital Partners are also said to be among bidders still in the running. People familiar with the matter have said that the unit could be sold for more than $3 billion.Chewy (CHWY) – Chewy Chief Financial Officer Mario Marte told The Wall Street Journal that the pet products seller plans to increase the company's product offerings, and is also seeking ways to monetize its new, free telehealth service for pets.Equifax (EFX) – The credit reporting agency was upgraded to "overweight" from "neutral" at Atlantic Equities, which cited upbeat current quarter trends. Atlantic also increased its price target on the stock to $228 per share from $172 a share.Planet Fitness (PLNT) – The fitness chain's stock is the subject of a negative mention in The Wall Street Journal's Heard On The Street column, which said the pandemic has seriously dented the company's business prospects. That view is not universal – earlier this week, BMO Capital repeated a "buy" rating on the stock and raised its price target by $10 to $80 following meetings with management. BMO feels the pandemic will force smaller players to close and increase the company's market share.

2020/12/01, In this articleAAPLFBAMZNNFLXGOOGLVIDEO3:2003:20Cramer sees year-end rally in Apple, Amazon stocksMad Money with Jim CramerCNBC's Jim Cramer on Tuesday doubled down on his forecast that Big Tech stocks have more upside in store as the market steers toward the end of the year.Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet shares, some of Wall Street's hottest trades of 2020, have lagged the broader market in recent weeks as major indexes rose to new highs.Cramer, with the help of wisdom from a trusted analyst, is forecasting these stocks will trend higher, potentially staging double-digit rallies to close out the year."If the FAANG stocks can stay on the market's good side, then the charts, as interpreted by Carolyn Boroden, suggest they have a lot more room to run," the "Mad Money" host said.Boroden, a chart analyst who runs FibonacciQueen.com and is a contributor at RealMoney.com, utilizes what's known as Fibonacci numbers to study past stock swings and chart future moves. The analyst sees promising moves for FAANG if each stock can hold above their November lows, Cramer explained.On Monday, Cramer spoke out against the market rotation out of the fast-growing stocks — those that led the major averages to new highs after a massive market sell-off in early 2020 from the pandemic shutdown —  and into other opportunities in small-cap and cyclical stocks. Investors have adjusted their portfolios to account for economic recovery as drug researchers see promising progress on coronavirus vaccines.Technical analysis is useful when fundamentals are unclear, Cramer said."I think she's right. This is the point on the calendar when money managers crowd into the year's biggest winners to show their clients how smart they are," he said. "That means winners like Facebook, like Amazon, like Apple, like Netflix, and of course, you know, I think Google, should keep winning, at least for the next four weeks."Boroden, according to Cramer, mapped out these potential runs for the companies if their stocks can hold above key levels:FacebookKey support level: $264Price targets: $306, $342 on the high endZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAppleKey support level: $112.59Price targets: $127, $147 on the high endZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAmazonKey support level: $2,950.12Price targets: $3,461, $3,737 on the high endZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsNetflixKey support level: $463.91Long-term price target: $603Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsVIDEO9:3509:35Jim Cramer: Charts show more upside for Facebook, Apple, Amazon and NetflixMad Money with Jim CramerDisclosure: Cramer's charitable owns shares of Facebook, Amazon, Apple and Alphabet.DisclaimerQuestions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2020/10/28, In this articleAAPLApple's launch promotional material of the new iPhone12 Pro seen displayed on a mobile phone screen with an Apple logo in the background.Pavlo Gonchar | LightRocket | Getty ImagesApple has quietly increased its efforts to develop its own search technology for iPhones, according to a report by The Financial Times (FT), as regulators scrutinize the multibillion-dollar payments that Google makes each year to ensure that its search engine is installed as a default search tool. When iPhone users with iOS 14, the latest iPhone software, type a query into the search window, Apple now shows its own search results instead of Google's. It also displays auto-complete style suggestions, highlighting how it is learning from users most common search queries. However, few are likely to have noticed the change. The U.S. Department of Justice launched a case last week over payments that Google makes to Apple to be the iPhone's default search tool. The DOJ cites "public estimates" saying that Google pays Apple between $8 billion and $12 billion per year to be the default search engine on Apple products.VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the StreetAn in-house search offering from Apple would provide the company with an alternative to Google search should authorities decide to block the partnership. The DOJ case has added urgency to Apple's search efforts, according to the FT, which cites search marketing experts who say the company's "Applebot" — a web crawler used to build a database of online material — has become more active recently.Apple has recruited a number of search experts in recent years. The Cupertino-headquartered firm hired Google's head of search, John Giannandrea, in April 2018 and Apple has also been posting job adverts for search engineers relatively frequently.The FT said Apple declined to comment. Apple and Google did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.Read the full story on The Financial Times.

2020/12/31, VIDEO1:1701:17News Update – Pre-MarketsNews BriefingCheck out the companies making headlines before the bell:Exxon Mobil – The energy giant will write down the value of its assets by up to $20 billion for the fourth quarter, mostly related to its natural gas assets. Exxon is, however, seeing a benefit this quarter from higher oil prices and improved margins in its chemicals business. Shares were fractionally lower around 7:45 a.m. ET. Enphase Energy – The Australia-based energy technology company's stock will replace Tiffany in the S&P 500, effective January 7. Tiffany is being bought by France's LVMH, with Tiffany shareholders having approved the deal Wednesday. Enphase stock was up 1% around 7:45 a.m. ET. Apple – Apple removed 39,000 games from its China app store, amid a crackdown on unlicensed games by the Chinese government. Including those games, a total of more than 46,000 apps were removed. Shares had gained half of 1% as of 7:45 a.m. ET. Tribune Publishing – Alden Global Capital offered to buy the portion of Tribune that it doesn't already own for $14.25 per share, compared to Wednesday's close of $12.79.  Alden is already Tribune's largest shareholder with a 32% stake. Tribune shares were up nearly 9% around 7:45 a.m. ET to trade at $13.92. Tesla – Tesla is higher in premarket trading, after rising for five straight sessions and hitting an all-time high during Wednesday's trading. Tesla shares have gained about 730% this year, going into the year's final trading day. The company's stock was up more than 1% around 7:45 a.m. ET. New York City REIT – The real estate investment trust has offered to buy up to 65,000 shares of the company's class B common stock for $7 per share. That follows a buyout offer from MacKenzie Capital Management at $6.50 per share for company, which invests in New York City-based commercial real estate. The stock had shed 7% as of 7:50 a.m. ET. Celsius Holdings – The fitness drink company's shares surged almost 13% in premarket trading on news that the stock will join the S&P SmallCap 600 on January 7. Cosmetics retailer e.l.f. Beauty will also join the SmallCap 600 on the same day.Red Lion Hotels – Sonesta International Hotels offered to take Red Lion private for $3.50 per share, or $90 million. That compares to Red Lion's Wednesday close of $2.70 per share. Red Lion shares gained 27% as of 7:50 a.m. ET to trade at $3.45. MicroStrategy – The business analytics company rose nearly 3% in premarket trading, following yesterday's 6.5% gain. MicroStrategy shares have surged in recent weeks, as bitcoin surges in value. MicroStrategy recently bought $650 million in bitcoin and has made more than $1 billion in bitcoin purchases this year. Baidu – The China-based search engine company is seeing its stock rise once again in premarket trading, following three straight days of gains capped by a 12.6% gain during Wednesday trading. Baidu had been among the China-based stocks that fell last Thursday on news of an antitrust crackdown on large companies by the Chinese government. The shares were up more than 3% at around 7:50 a.m. ET. 

2020/11/06, In this articleAAPLThe Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max is unveiled during a virtual product launch.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple on Friday began accepting orders for the final two iPhone 12 models that were announced in October, including the iPhone 12 Pro Max and the iPhone 12 Mini. Its new HomePod Mini smart speaker is also available to order for $99.This is the first year Apple has introduced four different models of the iPhone at the same time, and it split the launches of the iPhone 12/iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Pro Max/iPhone 12 Mini between October and November. The delay from a traditional September iPhone launch has been attributed to the ongoing spread of the coronavirus.IPhone revenue was down 20.7% year over year during Apple's fiscal fourth quarter, largely because the new iPhones weren't available to buy yet. Investors won't know how popular the latest devices are until it reports its fiscal first-quarter 2021 results.The iPhone 12 Pro Max starts at $1,099 and has the largest display ever on an iPhone. It includes some extra features over the regular $999 iPhone 12 Pro, such as better low-light camera performance. The iPhone 12 Mini offers many of the same features as the regular iPhone 12 but in a smaller form factor that may appeal more to people who don't want a large phone. It's the most affordable new option and starts at $699.After Apple's October event, however, some analysts said Apple failed to do a good enough job explaining why consumers should buy the more expensive Pro models over the regular iPhone 12, which CNBC said is the model most people should buy."In past phone cycles, we have felt that AAPL makes a strong case why tech-savvy consumers should gravitate towards the highest end solution (iPhone X in 2017, iPhone XS in 2018, iPhone 11 Pro in 2019), but we do not believe such a case was made as strongly in 2020," Deutsche Bank analysts said in a note in October.The HomePod Mini speaker could help Apple more effectively compete against Amazon and Google in the smart-speaker market. The original HomePod still sells for $299, but that's far more expensive than the sub-$99 price you can pay for an Amazon Echo or Google Nest speaker. It has Siri built in, which you can use to ask for the weather, directions and more.The iPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12 Mini arrive in stores on Nov. 13, and the HomePod Mini arrives in stores on Nov. 16.VIDEO3:2103:21Apple's iPhone 12 is more water resistant and battery life is great: Todd HaseltonSquawk on the StreetSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/10/13, In this articleAAPLApple has made some bold moves into health care, a market worth trillions globally. Most recently, it announced a blood oxygen sensor on the Apple Watch Series 6 and a partnership with the Singaporean government to incentivize Apple Watch users to be more healthy. But the company's strategy is a bit elusive as it walks the fine line between wellness and medicine.Apple has three areas of focus when it comes to health: hardware, like the Apple Watch, software, like the Health App and ResearchKit, and services, like Fitness+, Apple's newest subscription service. Most of these devices and services revolve around the iPhone ecosystem. While iPhone sales are still the majority of Apple's revenue, wearables and services are quickly picking up steam. iPhone sales have increased an average of about 4% quarter-over-quarter, and about 2% year-over-year since 2017. Services have increased an average of about 4.5% quarter-over-quarter, and about 22% year-over-year since 2017. Apple doesn't break out revenue for the Apple Watch but its "wearables, home and accessories" business, which includes AirPods, Apple Watch and other accessories, has grown the most by far, increasing at an average of almost 9% quarter over quarter, and nearly 35% year-over-year since 2017. The segment earned $6.45 billion in revenue during the third quarter of 2020.With these products and services creeping closer and closer to medicine and medical devices, Apple has had to meet new regulations from the Food and Drug Administration. The FDA oversees the clearance and approval of medical devices for safety and standards.Apple has found creative ways to get FDA approval without declaring itself as a medical device manufacturer. The Apple Watch has a De Novo classification under the FDA for its ECG feature, meaning it is the first of its kind, and therefore cannot be compared to anything else on the market regarding standards. Apple may continue to add new health-monitoring features. It has discussed adding a blood glucose monitor, for example.And Apple has made some big deals with health-care institutions, health records companies, and even governments. The company announced it would partner with the Singaporean government to give resident Apple Watch users up to $380 Singapore dollars if they engage in healthy behaviors like exercise or meditation.It has also entered a new battleground through health initiatives, in some cases, is already participating in the same markets as Peloton, Abbott and medical record software-maker Epic.

2020/10/30, People visit the Ericsson stand during the Mobile World Congress (MWC) Shanghai 2019 at the Shanghai New International Expo Center on June 25, 2019 in Shanghai, China.VCG | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only.)Hedge-fund manager Dan Niles told CNBC on Friday he's looking to play the growth of 5G by investing in chipmakers and other telecom firms instead of Apple, which just released its first iPhone that is compatible with the next-generation wireless network."Apple is not a good value for the growth you're getting," the founding partner of AlphaOne Capital Partners said on "Closing Bell," expressing concerns about the company's significant appreciation in share price without robust revenue growth alongside it.

2020/11/19, VIDEO6:1706:17Malone: Cable industry missed out on becoming direct-to-consumer providerSquawk on the StreetLiberty Media Chairman John Malone told CNBC that Amazon, Apple or Roku could dominate in the crowded streaming space given their ability to scale globally."I think these global platforms will be enormously powerful," Malone said in an interview that aired Thursday with CNBC's David Faber. Most products they create will be selling wholesale through these transport systems, the billionaire media mogul added."The consumer's not going to want to buy from a broad number of subscription services. They're going to tend to want to go to one convenient supplier. It looks increasingly like that's going to be, you know, Amazon ... or it's going to be Apple, or it's going to be Roku. Or it could still be a Google effort," he added.As consumers continue to cut the cord in favor of streaming, the space has become increasingly competitive and the fight for subscribers continue to heat up. The largest U.S. media companies, including Disney, Comcast's NBCUniversal, AT&T's Warner Media, have launched their own streaming services, while the entertainment world is being disrupted by tech giants like Apple and Amazon.Malone said Amazon and Apple are providing "extremely high quality services" and meeting consumer needs, while Roku, which aggregates content on its platform, is well-positioned for growth in the long run."I think the people who have the platforms in addition to the content, only the platforms, like Roku, are in pretty good position to build a long-term profitable global business," Malone said."And because of their size and their market power, they are in the position to crush competitors or even to go into parallel businesses and wreak havoc. I don't see anything likely to slow it down," Malone added.Cable industry 'missed the boat'The media magnate believes that it's hard for the cable industry to catch up with other big direct consumer players that are rapidly expanding globally."I believe that the cable industry, the U.S. cable industry, kind of missed the boat on being able to be the direct consumer provider in the video space," Malone said. "Never say never, and never say it's too late, but the scale of a Charter or the scale of a Comcast is small compared to the scale of an Amazon or the scale of an Apple."Malone built cable empire TCI in the 1970s before selling it to AT&T in 1999 for roughly $50 billion.Disney's streaming service Disney+ blew past expectations for its first year with 73.7 million subscribers. Its cable networks' operating income fell 7% year over year last quarter amid lower results at ESPN.NBCUniversal's new Peacock streaming service has reached nearly 22 million sign-ups. The service, which offers free and paid options, had 10 million sign-ups when Comcast last reported earnings in July."These things are global. And the cable guys that we're talking about are a subset of the U.S.," Malone said. "I don't see how at this point they can catch the scale to be able to position themselves to be that powerful relative to the distribution of entertainment content."Disclosure: Comcast's NBCUniversal is the parent company of CNBC.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/11/02, In this articleAAPLAttendees walk past Microsoft Xbox and Sony PlayStation signs at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles, June 16, 2015.Lucy Nicholson | ReutersApple TV will launch on the Xbox Series X and Series S game consoles, Microsoft confirmed on Monday. That means it will be available on all of the major game consoles launching in November, including the Sony PS5.The app will let you watch Apple TV+ shows and also access TV shows and movies you may have purchased on an iPhone, iPad or through iTunes.Apple TV is already available on other platforms, such as Roku, Amazon Fire TV and smart TVs, but it hasn't yet launched on next-gen game consoles. And gamers typically use these consoles as the focus of their living rooms, where they not only play games but watch movies and TV shows, play music and more.The launch could help Apple boost its Apple TV+ subscriber base. Anyone who's tied into the Apple ecosystem through the iPhone, Mac or iPad might want to have the app on their game console to watch the shows they already own. But they might also want to check out Apple TV+, which is a paid subscription service that costs $4.99 a month and offers exclusive TV shows and movies.Apple TV+ is also included in the new Apple One bundles, which package Apple Music, iCloud storage and other services together.It'll compete for eyeballs on the Sony PS5 and the Xbox Series X/Series S, though. Microsoft and Sony will also offer a lot of other apps, such as Netflix, Hulu, Disney+ and more.VIDEO3:2603:26Will Apple's new subscription service be good for shareholders?Squawk Box

2020/10/12, Tim Cook, chief executive officer of Apple Inc., speaks about the new iPhone Pro during an event at the Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, California, U.S., on Tuesday, Sept. 10, 2019. Apple unveiled the iPhone 11 that will replace the XR and start at $699. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesDavid Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesApple is kicking off its product launch on Tuesday, and if history is any gauge, this could be a good time to buy the technology giant's stock.Apple shares have outperformed the S&P 500 by an average of 13 percentage points in the six months following an iPhone launch event, according to data compiled by Morgan Stanley.

2020/11/02, In this articleAAPLVIDEO3:0003:00Apple sets product event for Nov. 10, new Mac announcement expectedHalftime ReportApple announced on Monday an event for Nov. 10 where it's expected to announce new Macs.The launch event will begin at 10 a.m. PT and will be livestreamed on Apple's website. The tagline on the invites on Monday was "One More Thing" and Apple says it will take place at its headquarters, Apple Park.Apple said earlier this year that it planned to release Mac computers with its own Apple-designed chips based on ARM, instead of Intel processors. Apple's iPhones and iPads have long used Apple-designed processors, which the company says helps extend battery life and provide faster performance.Apple could launch a iMac desktop with a new design and laptops using Apple chips, according to a research note from TF Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo published earlier this year.Apple has held launch events in the two past months focusing on new Apple Watch and iPhone 12 models. They've been pre-recorded and streamed online, instead of held in-person at its campus in California, because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Mac sales have been a highlight for Apple during the pandemic. In the quarter ending in June, Apple reported $9 billion in Mac sales, which was up 28% year-over-year.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsApple

2020/09/25, Facebook Chairman and CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies at a House Financial Services Committee hearing in Washington, October 23, 2019.Erin Scott | ReutersFacebook on Friday said Apple temporarily reversed its decision to take a 30% cut of transactions generated by small businesses hosting paid virtual events through the Facebook app. But although it's a temporary win for Facebook, the company still used the opportunity to frame Apple's App Store rules as harmful to small businesses during the Covid-19 pandemic and global recession.Apple's reversal comes weeks after it blocked an update to the Facebook app that displayed a warning to users that a cut of transactions for paid events would go to Apple. At the time, Facebook said Apple would not make an exception to its rules to give the full amount of the transactions to the businesses hosting the events. Facebook already waived its cut through its Facebook Pay system, and Google agreed not to take its standard 30% cut of the transactions through the Android version of the app.An Apple spokesperson told CNBC it reversed its decision on the Facebook event fees due to the pressures businesses are facing from the pandemic, and that Apple wants to give those businesses more time to adapt to digital business models. The spokesperson also said its App Store rule that requires the 30% cut to Apple does not apply to ticketing real-world events, only digital events, and Facebook has until the end of the year to implement in-app payments for real-world events. Airbnb and ClassPass also have until the end of the year to add the in-app payments for events, Apple said."The App Store provides a great business opportunity for all developers, who use it to reach half a billion visitors each week across 175 countries," Apple said in a statement. "To ensure every developer can create and grow a successful business, Apple maintains a clear, consistent set of guidelines that apply equally to everyone."Facebook's announcement on Friday also takes a shot at Apple's App Store policies, claiming they're harmful to small businesses struggling amid a pandemic-fueled recession. The company said Apple only agreed to waive the fees until Dec. 31, and that paid events hosted by gaming companies will still be subject to the fees. The Apple spokesperson said the decision does not affect gaming companies because gaming businesses have not been hurt by the pandemic and have always been digital-only. Facebook said it will waive its transaction fees until at least August 2021."This is a difficult time for small businesses and creators, which is why we are not collecting any fees from paid online events while communities remain closed for the pandemic," Facebook spokesperson Joe Osborne said in a statement. "Apple has agreed to provide a brief, three-month respite after which struggling businesses will have to, yet again, pay Apple the full 30% App Store tax."Facebook vs. AppleFacebook executives have become increasingly critical over Apple's App Store rules, saying the company has an effective monopoly over how apps work across more than 1 billion devices in use around the world.In an interview on CNBC's "Squawk Box" earlier this month, the head of Facebook-owned Instagram Adam Mosseri said Apple has "an immense amount of power" over its App Store and has control over how app-based businesses operate. Apple recently delayed a feature in its new iOS 14 software that would have made it easier for users to block companies from tracking their iPhone usage to gather data for targeted digital ads. Facebook warned that the feature would slow growth in its ad business and harm businesses that rely on Facebook ads."They can just decide we can't launch new apps at any given moment," Mosseri said of Apple. "We've seen a series of articles and even some lawsuits and their influence and power over developers over the last couple months." Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg made similar comments to employees during an all-hands meeting this summer, according to leaked audio of the meeting obtained by BuzzFeed. Zuckerberg said in the August meeting that Apple has "this unique stranglehold as a gatekeeper on what gets on phones" and that the company charges "monopoly rents" to app makers, according to the report.Facebook also argued on Friday that Apple should allow users more control over default apps used on the iPhone for basic services like sending text messages. Apple's latest iPhone software update, iOS 14, has a new feature that allows you to select default third-party apps for web browsing and e-mail, but not other basic functions.In an interview with The Information, Facebook's VP in charge of its Messenger app said the company has repeatedly asked Apple over the years to give iPhone users the option to select Messenger as their default messaging app, something Google already allows on Android devices. The call echoes antitrust complaints Microsoft faced in the late 1990s and early 2000s over the way it packaged its own default apps for web browsing and other key functions PCs in the Windows operating system.But the irony in Facebook's recent criticism over Apple should not be lost: Facebook is also facing formal antitrust investigations from the Federal Trade Commission and nearly every state attorney general in the U.S., not to mention a slew of regulatory threats around the globe.Everyone else vs. AppleIt's not just Facebook taking aim at Apple. Several other companies that build iPhone apps are also taking aim at the App Store fee policies.The most high-profile case comes from Fortnite maker Epic Games, which sued Apple after Epic purposefully violated Apple's App Store policies by offering its own own payments system within the iPhone version of Fortnite. Apple removed the Fortnite app from the App Store, and the two are now locked in a legal battle over the decision.On Thursday, a group of tech companies including Spotify, Match Group (which makes dating apps like Tinder), Epic Games and Basecamp announced the formation of a nonprofit group called the Coalition for App Fairness. The group's aim is to lobby for legal changes that regulate app marketplaces so they can't charge developers "unfair, unreasonable or discriminatory fees or revenue shares."Two other tech giants, Microsoft and Google, have their own beef with Apple's App Store rules. Apple has blocked the two companies from launching their new streaming video game services on the App Store, arguing that each game included in the service should be submitted individually. But that goes against the very nature of the gaming services, which allows you to stream a library of console games in one app to your mobile device."This remains a bad experience for customers. Gamers want to jump directly into a game from their curated catalog within one app just like they do with movies or songs, and not be forced to download over 100 apps to play individual games from the cloud," a Microsoft spokesperson told CNBC earlier this month.VIDEO3:5503:55Apple event comes at a time when company faces attacks from Big Tech peers: NYT's Ed LeeThe Exchange

2020/10/16, View of the phone company QUALCOMM technology 5G in the Mobile World Congress.Ramon Costa | SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Apple's newest product line-up featuring the 5G iPhone debuted earlier this week and Wall Street analysts say there's a whole bunch of other companies that stand to benefit.Analysts unveiled their top Apple derivative plays and CNBC Pro combed through research to find the best ways to invest in the tech giant's ecosystem.

2020/10/14, In this articleAAPLGUANGZHOU, China — Apple's iPhone 12 range with 5G connectivity is going to be very important in China and key to achieving what analysts are calling an upgrade "supercycle."5G refers to next-generation mobile networks promising super-fast data speeds.On Tuesday, Apple unveiled four new 5G-capable iPhone models. While 5G networks are in their infancy, China's networks have been pushing quickly to expand coverage.That has led to a surge in 5G smartphone sales, particularly from domestic players like Huawei.Apple is now joining the party, a big move in a market that accounts for around 15% of the U.S. tech giant's total sales."If we look back to (the) second quarter of the year, almost half of the smartphones shipped in China had 5G connectivity," Will Wong, research manager at IDC, told CNBC. "Among the top 5 vendors in China, Apple was the only one without a 5G model. Having a upgrade of 5G will be very important for Apple to continue to attract the attention of the Chinese market."China is the world's largest 5G smartphone market and the country with the most number of 5G connections, according to market analysis firm CCS Insight.China remains a key ingredient in Apple's recipe for success as we estimate roughly 20% of iPhone upgrades will be coming from this region over the coming year.Daniel IvesWedbush SecuritiesThe world's second-largest economy appears to have managed to get the coronavirus under control, and there are signs of economic recovery and a revival of consumer spending."In the pandemic era, in terms of recovery, economics and also from pandemic itself, China is ahead of other regions and countries, so it's important for Apple to stay ahead and upgrade 5G connectivity," Wong said.Daniel Ives, analyst at Wedbush Securities, said China demand is the "linchpin to Apple's 5G supercycle.""China remains a key ingredient in Apple's recipe for success as we estimate roughly 20% of iPhone upgrades will be coming from this region over the coming year," Ives said in a note on Tuesday."To this point we are seeing considerable strength from the China region over the last few months (should be a source of relative strength in the September quarter) with positive trends heading into the all-important holiday timeframe."VIDEO2:5002:50Apple's 5G phone is finally coming, but what's the killer app for 5G?Squawk Box AsiaApple's iPhone 11 series and the cheaper second-generation iPhone SE have proved popular with Chinese consumers and helped the Cupertino-based company see a rebound in sales in the second-quarter after a tough first quarter.What iPhone will Chinese consumers buy?In China, large screen phones are very popular. Therefore, Chinese consumers will likely favor the iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro.Both devices boast a 6.1-inch display though the Pro version has a higher specification camera and is more expensive.The iPhone 12 Pro Max, with a 6.7-inch screen, may be too expensive for most consumers in China, Wong says.In terms of price, the iPhone 12 starts at 6,299 yuan ($934), a nearly 17% premium to the U.S. price of $799. Last year's iPhone 11 started at 5,499 yuan and commanded between a 10.5% and 12.5% premium, depending on the variant.The iPhone 12 Pro starts at 8,499 yuan ($1,260) — a 26% premium to the U.S. pricing of $999. The lowest model of the iPhone 12 Pro comes with 128GB internal storage. Last year's equivalent, the iPhone 11 Pro, which started at 8,699 yuan, came with 64GB storage. So the iPhone 12 Pro is cheaper than the iPhone 11's starting price upon release."I believe the 12 and 12 Pro in terms of pricing and screen size will be more attractive to the consumers. The 12 Pro Max is attractive because of the largest screen size ever, but the price might not be that attractive," Wong said.The analyst also noted that the iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro will be available sooner than the iPhone Mini and the iPhone 12 Pro Max, and said it was a "good move."

2021/01/21, Traders on floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Source: New York Stock ExchangeThis is the daily notebook of Mike Santoli, CNBC's senior markets commentator, with ideas about trends, stocks and market statistics.

2020/10/13, In this articleAAPLApple CEO Tim Cook reveals the new iPhone 12.SourceApple announced new iPhones Tuesday in a video presentation just over an hour long covering the new devices' faster chips, 5G speeds and capabilities, and improved cameras.But one of the most important pieces of information for investors and customers got significantly less stage time: Changes to the iPhone lineup's segmentation and pricing.Apple changed its iPhone lineup so that the new model advertised at $699 is now a Mini device with a smaller screen. The iPhone 12, the direct successor to the iPhone 11, got a price bump to $799. Some people will pay even more — the phone costs $829 if it's not paired with wireless service from Verizon or AT&T, according to Apple's website. (The iPhone 12 Mini also costs $30 extra without cell service.)Here's the full line-up, including the low-end iPhone SE and previous models with price cuts:iPhone SE (2020) — $399iPhone XR (2018) — $499iPhone 11 (2019) — $599iPhone 12 Mini (2020) — $729iPhone 12 (2020) — $829iPhone 12 Pro (2020) — $999iPhone 12 Pro Max (2020) — $1099Apple now has an option at every $100 starting from $400 and ranging up to $1,100, enabling it to compete against Android devices in the low-to-mid range market without cannibalizing its pricey, high-end models. The lower-cost options also give Apple strong products for consumers in emerging markets who might be less inclined to embrace thousand-dollar phones.This is the second time in two years that Apple has tweaked the pricing of its highest volume phone. Last year, the iPhone 11 got a price cut to $699, $50 less than its direct predecessor, the iPhone XR. Cook said that Apple "hit the right price" with the iPhone 11 in January when discussing the device.Consumers like bigger screensLast year, the middle-of-the-road iPhone 11 was the best-selling iPhone in the holiday quarter, Apple CEO Tim Cook said in January. If the iPhone 12 becomes the most popular of Apple's current models, as is likely, the increase could boost the average iPhone selling price, a key metric for Apple investors.Apple no longer reports the iPhone's average selling price on a quarterly basis, so investors will have to back the details out from executive commentary and other market research. But a higher average selling price for iPhones would likely boost total revenue for the segment, which Apple still reports.Apple does have a new device at $699, the iPhone 12 Mini, which the company says has all the same features as its larger sibling. It just has a smaller 5.4-inch screen, as opposed to a 6.1-inch screen. In fact, the Mini has the smallest screen on any new iPhone introduced since 2017, although it's still larger than the screen on the low-end iPhone SE, which was based on the iPhone 8 design.Smartphone consumers have shown strong preferences for larger screens. The iPhone 12 is expected to be the best-selling iPhone among the new models, with about 40% of shipments, predicted TF Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo in a note on Monday before the phones were officially announced.In fact, one way to look at Tuesday's event is that Apple now has a wider range of devices at more prices than it ever has in the past, offering consumers an option at every major price. It just happens that the device that is expected to be the best-selling of the lineup has received a price increase.The iPhone lineupSource: Apple Inc.Expanding product lineups is a trend for Apple this fall — last month it released a less-expensive Apple Watch, the SE, which gave Apple a clear three-device wearable lineup with options at the entry-level (the $199 Apple Watch 3), sweet spot (the $279 Apple Watch SE) and enthusiast tier (the $399 Apple Watch 6.)The biggest news for Apple investors may be that the company is getting even better at segmenting its customers.WATCH: Apple's pricing is key for growthVIDEO3:0203:02Apple's pricing is key for growth: AnalystThe Exchange

2020/10/30, In this articleAAPLiPhone 12 Pro and iPhone 12.Todd Haselton | CNBCApple began rolling out its Apple One subscription bundles on Friday. They package together a bunch of Apple's subscription services, such as Apple Music, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade and iCloud storage and can save you money over paying for them separately.Apple One also represents a new way for Apple to boost subscriptions and bolster its services business, which generated $14.55 billion — up 16.5% year over year — during Apple's fiscal fourth quarter. And it could help attract more people to use services they might not have otherwise, such as Apple Arcade.Three plans are available:Individual costs $14.95 per month with Apple Music, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade and 50GB of iCloud storage. That's a savings of $6 a month over buying them separately.Family costs $19.95 per month and includes 200GB of iCloud storage and support for up to six people to use the subscriptions. It will save you $8 a month.Premier costs $29.95 per month and adds News+ and Fitness+, a set of workout classes for Apple Watch owners, along with 2TB of iCloud storage. It works with up to six people and will save you a whopping $25 a month over buying the services separately.Here's how to sign up:Open Settings on your iPhone.Tap your name at the top of the screen.Tap Subscriptions.Choose "Get Apple One."Select the plan. Each comes with a one-month free trial.Click "Start Free Trial" at the bottom of the screen.VIDEO8:3708:37Loup Ventures' Gene Munster reacts to Apple earningsFast MoneySubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/10/29, In this articleAAPLI love the blue iPhone 12.Todd Haselton | CNBCApple will launch its Apple One subscription bundles on Friday, Apple CEO Tim Cook told CNBC on Thursday. Apple One lets people pay for Apple's premium services with one monthly payment and it could help Apple boost usage numbers for some of its less-popular services."Tomorrow we will ship AppleOne which as you recall is the easy way to buy all of our services," Cook told CNBC's Josh Lipton. He also said that Apple Fitness+, which will provide workout classes to people who own the Apple Watch, will launch later this year.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsApple One plansAppleApple introduced three tiers of Apple One in September. The Individual costs $14.95 a month and includes includes Apple Music, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade and and 500GB of iCloud storage. It's a savings of $6 versus if you were to subscribe to each service individually.VIDEO1:5501:55Apple announces Apple One, a bundle of the company's servicesTechThe Apple One Family plan ($19.95 a month) lets up to six people access the services and up to 200GB of iCloud storage.Another option, Premier, will bundle Apple News+ and Apple Fitness+That will cost $29.95 a month and includes 2TB of iCloud storage and can be shared with up to five other people.Apple shares fell as much as 5% after hours on Thursday as the company reported a steep decline in quarterly iPhone sales and declined to give sales guidance for the critical holiday quarter.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/10/14, In this articleAAPLApple's launch promotional material of the new iPhone12 Pro seen displayed on a mobile phone screen with an Apple logo in the background.Pavlo Gonchar | LightRocket | Getty ImagesApple's decision to remove the charger and headphones from iPhone 12 boxes has generally been well received by environmentalists, although the tech giant has been pressed to go much further in reducing its impact on the environment.Apple announced Tuesday that all of the four upcoming iPhone 12 models will not include a charging adaptor or the wired headphones that have been commonplace in iPhone boxes for years. As a result, iPhone boxes will be considerably smaller, and Apple says it will be able to fit 70% more iPhones onto a shipping pallet."The initiative by Apple to stop including headphones and chargers is a step forward to reduce unnecessary EEE (electrical and electronic equipment products) that will duplicate those that we already have," Teresa Domenech of University College London's Institute for Sustainable Resources told CNBC."This could not only help to reduce waste but also would prevent upstream environmental impacts linked to the extraction of primary raw materials, manufacturing and distribution of products."Lisa Jackson, Apple VP of environment, policy and social initiatives, said: "We know that customers have been accumulating USB power adapters, and that producing millions of unneeded adapters consumes resources and adds to our carbon footprint."Jackson said Apple believes there to be over 700 million pairs of wired EarPods and around 2 billion power adapters in circulation around the world. "And that's not counting the billions of third party adapters," she said in a presentation from the roof of Apple Park.Steve Hynd, a campaigns manager at City to Sea, an environmental group, told CNBC: "Reducing the amount of electrical debris that comes with products is a welcome step in reducing the environmental impact of new smartphones."Hynd said things are still far from perfect, however. He believes phones still come with an "ocean" of unnecessary packaging and stressed that Apple should be looking at embedding "reuse" into their business model."This means designing for durability and easy repairs by having swap out modular components. It also means encouraging and facilitating a second-hand reuse market for their phones. So while we welcome these small steps in producing less waste on the fringes of their business, we urge them to keep watering the fruitful seed of an idea, reuse, and embed this into the core of their business plan."Elizabeth Jardim, senior corporate campaigner at Greenpeace told CNBC that reducing the amount of material used in Apple products is "an important part of trimming product carbon emissions" but said there's still more to do.In July, Apple said it is working toward having a net zero carbon impact by 2030. Elsewhere, the likes of Google and Facebook have made similar commitments. 

2020/10/14, In this articleAAPLVIDEO4:3604:36Apple unveiled a slate of new iPhones — Here's what experts are watching nowTrading NationApple just announced four new iPhone 12 models, all of which support new, faster 5G networks.It also unveiled a new smart home speaker, called the HomePod Mini, and some accessories for the new iPhones that allow users to wirelessly charge their phones.Six experts break down how they view the new products and what it may mean for Apple's stock performance going forward.Jim Suva, senior tech analyst at Citi, is bullish on Apple's readiness to prepare for the holiday shopping season."If we look at year to date, the stock has done extremely well. In fact, it has outperformed the Nasdaq, the S&P 500, the broader markets, it has rallied. … Simply put, Apple during this pandemic is generating a tremendous amount of cash flow. They're inventing, they're coming out with new products and ... they're hiring. A lot of industries are laying off people and doing furloughs and reductions of … hours of workers, we're actually seeing that Apple is hiring. That means they're coming out of the pandemic stronger and importantly, the products that you're showing that Apple announced are going to be ready and on the shelves and available in large quantities for the holiday shopping season and that's very important."Joanna Stern, personal technology columnist at The Wall Street Journal, said Apple is making a bet on 5G adoption and expansion."What is the benefit for normal consumers? Where are they going to feel the faster speeds? And regardless of if everything works perfectly, right, we've got good hardware, good network and you can get 5G all the time, what do you use the faster speeds for on your phone? Where is the answer to that question is the big thing. [CEO Tim] Cook did point out downloads. Certainly downloading video, downloading music, that's going to be faster. They also did a lot of gaming demos where you can see things instantly rendering and talking about how this would be faster than your home Wi-Fi. That's another good thing for some consumers, certainly, but the killer app, which is what this is all about, we don't know yet and this is why Apple is betting and that's why ... the carriers need Apple to bet because it's all about the new era."Tim Long, senior research analyst at Barclays, raised a number of questions around Apple's new 5G technology."We've been a little bit more skeptical on the iPhone side for the last few years here. It's been a time since they've had a real hit. Remember that the 10 was supposed to be a supercycle as well. We didn't really see it so we've seen a lot of changes as far as customers' willingness to pay really since that iPhone 10 so there's been a lot more mixing down and of course now really the new feature here is 5G. … When we have a new technology, we struggle with – is it worth the cost? Are there applications? What's it going to do with my battery? What will the coverage look like?"Jim Cramer, host of CNBC's 'Mad Money,' explained weakness in the share price after Tuesday's event."I think the phone is a surprise. I think that the fact the stock was down was because it was up 6% the day before [on Monday] which is stupid. That's those people. … They're like, 'Oh, there is a big unveiling. I'll buy the stock beforehand and then I will profit.'"Nilay Patel, editor in chief of The Verge, is skeptical about the uses of 5G."In the middle of Apple's pitch for 5G, they announced a feature called Smart Data Mode … the thing that Smart Data Mode does for you is it turns 5G off to save battery life. So not only is the network not ready, the hardware, because the networks are new and the modems are new, is going to drain your battery life if you overuse 5G. So the phone itself unless you're doing something that demands a lot of speed is going to turn 5G off almost most of the time. I did not see a single compelling use case for 5G in that entire presentation, other than the speed test app."Krish Sankar, senior research analyst at Cowen, said 5G could give a boost to this upgrade cycle."I would say in terms of the overall event a lot of the specs are largely in line with what the supply chain had been telegraphing for a long time. I thought the price point was very attractive although there was some speculation of the pricing late last week, so largely overall I'd say in-line event. … We did a survey where we found a lot of respondents will be willing to upgrade their smartphones because of 5G. We just think that actually this 5G could be a longer, stronger cycle. I don't think this is going to be a huge bump right away but if you take a two-, three-year view, I think this could be a longer duration cycle because of the move to 5G, only it might be a little slow."Disclaimer

2020/09/25, Apple Watch Series 6, the new Memoji face looks like me.Todd Haselton | CNBCI've been testing the new Apple Watch Series 6 for the past week. It's very similar to the Apple Watch Series 5 launched last year. It even looks the same, unless you check out the new sensors on the bottom or buy one of the the new red or blue models. You can't really think of a new Apple Watch model the same way you do a new iPhone. People buy new phones every couple of years, while the smartwatch market is still just getting started. Canalys expects only 150 million people, total, will have smartwatches in 2020. By way of comparison, Apple was regularly selling more than 200 million iPhones a year up to 2018, when it stopped reporting unit sales.But people are buying them, even during the coronavirus pandemic and extreme economic uncertainty it's created — Canalys also said shipments grew 12% in Q1.So when I think about the new Apple Watch Series 6, I'm still thinking about people who've never owned a smartwatch and want to take the plunge. For that audience, it's the best smartwatch you can buy, although the $399 starting price isn't cheap, and Apple does offer some less-expensive options.Apple Watch Series 6 in blueTodd Haselton | CNBCThe Series 6 does have some options that could spur some upgrades from previous versions, like an always-on screen that gets slightly brighter when you tilt your wrist, which is great for checking notifications or looking at the screen when you're outdoors. It's faster than last year's model thanks to a new chip. It also has a new blood oxygen sensor, but this is meant as a "wellness feature" and not a replacement for a medical-grade device, so don't buy it for that reason alone.What's goodApple Watch Series 6 in blueTodd Haselton | CNBCThe Series 6 is a hair faster than last year's Series 5, opening apps about one second faster, and has a brighter always-on display, which helps when I'm outdoors. These are great if you're a first-time Apple Watch buyer and want the best model, or if you're coming from an earlier version that doesn't have an always-on display and may be starting to feel sluggish. But if you have last year's model like I do, those aren't enough reason to upgrade.I like that it has all of the features introduced in earlier models, like the electrocardiogram option, and provides high and low heart-rate notifications (as the cheaper Series 3 and Series SE do).The biggest new feature is a blood oxygen sensor. It's easy enough to use: just open the app, rest your arm on a table and it'll read out your oxygen.But I don't know what I'm supposed to learn from it. Sometimes it says I have a 96% blood oxygen saturation. Sometimes it says 99%. I don't really know what that means, and Apple doesn't explain beyond that anything above 90% is normal.Apple says you might want to use the sensor at high altitudes, like during a hike, to see how you're adjusting. But you shouldn't use it for medical purposes, like if you think you might have coronavirus and want to watch your oxygen levels. For that, you should get an FDA-certified device.Apple Watch Series 6 in blueTodd Haselton | CNBCApple is running three different studies to see how oxygen saturation levels can help people understand their health more. But, for now, don't use it for medical purposes.I like the new blue color, which is fun but not too shiny and not too bold like the red model. I appreciate that the colors are offered in the most-affordable aluminum tier, which starts at $399.If you can spend more, I recommend stepping up to a stainless steel model, since those models and higher (titanium) come with the harder sapphire screens that are way more resistant to scratches than the glass on the regular Series 6. Stainless steel models start at $699 but include cellular sensors, too, so you can place calls, receive texts or stream music without an iPhone nearby.Apple Watch Series 6Source: AppleFinally, the Apple Watch software is still the best of any smartwatch on the market. It's fast, there are thousands of apps that you can bring up on your wrist, and it's a lot of fun to try to close the rings that indicate whether you're getting enough exercise and burning enough calories. All the models work with Apple Pay so you can tap your watch to buy stuff at the store — particularly convenient during the coronavirus pandemic, when you might not want to touch a payment screen.I'm also excited for Apple Fitness+, which launches later this year and will provide workout stats right from your Apple Watch, like your heart rate, on an iPad, Apple TV or iPhone, while showing a workout video.What's bad?Trying the blood oximeter.Todd Haselton | CNBCMy biggest complaint is battery life. Apple still promises 18 hours of on time, which is fine but not great considering Fitbit and Garmin offer many days of battery life. But Apple wins against those with way better software.At least the Series 6 charges in 1.5 hours, versus 2.5 hours for earlier models. In my case, I just charge it while I'm reading in bed at night and put it back on before bed to use the new sleep tracking feature (also available on earlier models.) I'd love to see two or three days of battery life in future models.This new band doesn't have any clasps, just slide it over your wrist.Todd Haselton | CNBCIt's a little boring that it still looks pretty much the same as the Series 4 and the Series 5 Apple Watches. On the other hand, I'm not sure what Apple needs to change. It can't really slim it down while also adding a bigger battery, for example.Finally, one of my editors has an Apple Watch Series 6 and noticed that the screen didn't always register to his taps. I didn't notice this on my unit, but it could be some software bugs that will be worked out over time.Should you buy it?Apple Watch Series 6Todd Haselton | CNBCIt depends who you are.If you've never owned an Apple Watch and want the best, get the Series 6. You won't be disappointed.If you want to save some money, consider the Apple Watch SE, which starts at $279. You'll just miss the always-on display, the slightly faster processor, blood-oxygen tracking and faster charging. But you still get water-resistance, the great software, automatic fall detection, an always-on altimeter and everything else from older models.If that's too expensive, you can even go with an Apple Watch Series 3, which starts at $199, for the basics.VIDEO3:1603:16CNBC tech product editor Todd Haselton looks at Apple's new watch, iPadPower LunchSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. Correction: Updated to reflect correct price of Apple Watch SE.

2020/10/05, In this articleSONOSource: SonosSonos stock fell more than 2% in extended trading after Bloomberg reported that Apple has purged its online store of third-party audio products and instructed retail stores to do the same.On Monday, a visit to the speakers and headphones category on Apple's online store only displayed Apple products. Previously, Apple stores had carried headphones and speakers from third-party manufacturers going back years, especially if they closely integrated with Apple services like AirPlay, which enables users to stream music from an iPhone to a speaker without plugging in a cord. Apple manufactures a variety of audio products under its Beats brand as well as products such as AirPods wireless earbuds and the HomePod smart speaker under the main Apple brand. Apple is working on a high-end set of over-ear headphones that will carry its own brand as well, TF Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo said earlier this year.In the quarter ending in June, Apple reported $6.45 billion in other products revenue, which accounted for about 10% of the company's sales. However, the sales category includes other products, such as Apple Watch, not just headphones and speakers. Brands affected include Logitech and Bose, in addition to Sonos. Physical Apple stores and its online store had previously sold speakers such as the Sonos SL speaker and Logitech's Ultimate Ears Boom speakers. Apple also previously carried Bose noise-cancelling headphones. Apple started carrying Sonos' latest speaker, the Sonos One SL, in January. Apple regularly adds and removes third-party products its stores carry. Logitech cases, webcams, and keyboards are still available from Apple and its stock was down less than 1% after hours.Apple and Sonos representatives declined to comment. Logitech did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 

2020/12/24, VIDEO4:0704:07Here's what may be next for retail in 2021: Personalization, home goods and apparelSquawk BoxCheck out the companies making headlines in midday trading. Nikola — Shares of the electric vehicle company shed 8.5% as the stock continued its slide after the announcement of the end of a garbage truck development deal with Republic Services. The stock lost 10.7% on Wednesday. Wedbush Securities called the announcement "a tough pill to swallow for bulls."Macy's — The retailer slid 3.4 amid weakness in the sector as investors weighed the ongoing impacts of Covid on stores. Kohl's fell 2%.Marathon Oil — Shares of the oil company slid 2.6% as the sector gave back some of its gains from the previous session. On Wednesday, the energy sector advanced 2.2%, making it the top-performing S&P sector. Devon Energy and Apache Corporation also came under pressure on Thursday, each declining more than 2%.Apple — Shares gained another 0.77%, bringing their gains this week to 4.2%. The advance came after Reuters reported that the tech giant is moving ahead with its automotive efforts, targeting 2024 to produce self-driving vehicles.FuboTV — The streaming television stock dropped 16% after LightShed Partners initiated coverage of the company with a sell rating. The stock lost 15.2% on Wednesday, after posting five straight sessions of double-digit percentage gains.Alibaba — Shares tanked 13.3% on news that the China-based e-commerce giant is the target of a newly launched antitrust investigation by the Chinese government. The primary issue named was a practice that forces merchants to choose one of two platforms, rather than being able to work with both.— CNBC's Yun Li, Maggie Fitzgerald and Jesse Pound contributed reporting.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/10/20, In this articleAAPLVIDEO2:2102:21Chinese users snapped up Apple's iPhone 12 in record first-day preorder salesSquawk Box AsiaGUANGZHOU, China — Chinese consumers have taken a liking to Apple's new iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro, according to data provided to CNBC.The two devices in Apple's new 5G flagship lineup became available for pre-order on Oct. 16. As of 9:30 a.m. China time on Tuesday, 152,737 iPhone 12 units had been pre-ordered, data from Chinese e-commerce site and authorized Apple reseller Fenqile showed.Fenqile is also taking pre-orders for the iPhone 12 Mini and iPhone 12 Pro Max, even though they're not officially available until November.Out of all the pre-ordered iPhones, nearly 43% are iPhone 12 models and over 28% are iPhone 12 Pro models. Just under 19% are iPhone 12 Pro Max orders and nearly 10% are orders for the iPhone 12 Mini, the device with the smallest screen in the lineup.The Fenqile data comes after a new note from Ming-Chi Kuo, an analyst at TF International Securities, known for his accurate predictions on Apple products and sales.Apple's launch promotional material of the new iPhone12 Pro seen displayed on a mobile phone screen with an Apple logo in the background.Pavlo Gonchar | LightRocket | Getty ImagesKuo reported that Apple sold up to 2 million iPhone 12 units in the first 24 hours, up from 800,000 units of the iPhone 11. He also said that iPhone 12 Pro sold better than expected and that China represented 35% to 45% of that model's demand.Indeed, on Apple's official China website, the iPhone 12 Pro had a delivery time of three to four weeks, higher than the two to three weeks for the base iPhone 12 models. Delivery times for devices can often indicate which models are most popular.Kuo also predicted that the iPhone 12 Mini wouldn't sell well in China due to its smaller screen, in a market where larger displays are more popular. On Fenqile, the iPhone 12 Mini has the least amount of pre-orders.The latest figures will be encouraging for Apple given the importance of the Chinese market to the company but also the high expectations that the iPhone 12 range will spur an upgrade "supercycle."Apple's iPhone 12 64GB in blue makes up 20% of pre-orders on Fenqile with the iPhone 12 Pro 128GB Pacific Blue variant making up 11%. These are the two most popular models.The Cupertino, California giant has been quite aggressive on pricing. The iPhone 12 Pro is cheaper than last year's iPhone 11 starting price upon release in China."Consumers are looking for the best deal now, even before the pandemic. And both the iPhone 12 and 12 Pro models could provide them favorable prices and screen size experience," Will Wong, research manager at IDC, told CNBC."The iPhone 12 allows consumers to get the first 5G iPhone with more acceptable prices and specs, while iPhone 12 Pro could provide the 'Pro' experience to consumers with more affordable prices too."

2020/09/13, Apple CEO Tim Cook delivers the keynote address during the 2020 Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) at Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, California.Brooks Kraft/Apple Inc/Handout via ReutersFor Apple investors, the most exciting product the company could release this fall isn't a new version of the iPhone or Apple Watch: It's a bundle that tie some of the company's subscription services together and give users with a discount for subscribing to more than one at the same time.Apple hasn't confirmed "Apple One," the suggested name for the bundle, but technology blog 9to5Google found code in the Apple Music Android app earlier this week suggesting that the iPhone maker will tie its music service to other subscriptions it offers, like Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, and iCloud storage. If Apple One launches this fall, Wall Street investors and analysts will be happy. An Apple bundle has been on investor wish lists for years."We have long argued that bundling services is a unique tool that Apple has at its disposal," Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty wrote in an August note. The theory is that an Apple bundle will anchor Apple's burgeoning services business, increase the number of subscribers, and complete the perspective shift from Apple as a hardware maker dependent on annual iPhone refreshes, to a technology and software company with several lines of recurring revenue and a self-reinforcing ecosystem, potentially driving the stock price up without having to increase product sales or prices dramatically. Huberty wrote that an Apple bundle could differentiate Apple's services, boost subscribers for Apple's less popular services, integrate with Apple Pay and Apple Card, and lock customers into the Apple ecosystem. Apple has set a target for 600 million subscribers by the end of 2020 (including subscribers to App Store apps), Huberty writes, and a bundle would help it hit and exceed that target. Started in 2015To some extent, Apple has already started changing its story with investors. They currently give the company a much richer valuation than they did in 2015, when activist investor Carl Ichan wrote an open letter to Apple CEO Tim Cook raising the idea that Apple's ecosystem was undervalued.On Thursday's close, Apple has a P/E ratio close to 34.5, according to FactSet, compared to 10.9 when Icahn wrote his letter. That's been largely driven by Apple's online services, which accounted for 22% of the company's revenue in the quarter ending in June.Icahn, who sold his Apple stake in 2016, suggested that Apple could increase its P/E ratio by aggressively expanding into the TV market, and that a core part of that strategy would be a "skinny bundle" of pay-tv shows and movies from media companies alongside a streaming music service. The "skinny bundle" never came to fruition, nor did the Apple-made physical TV that Icahn predicted. But in recent years, Apple has made some moves toward that vision. Last November, Apple released Apple TV+, a $4.99-per-month subscription that gives users access to Apple-funded TV shows, movies and documentaries. And inside the Apple TV app, users can subscribe to CBS All Access and Showtime, two streaming channels, for $9.99 per month, a savings of $11 per month over buying the two services separately. But the idea of the Apple bundle and significant recurring revenue had took hold among people who felt at the time that Apple was undervalued. Goldman Sachs analyst Simona Jankowski floated in 2016 that if Apple were to own its own content, it could bundle that with Apple Music and hardware like an Apple TV set-top box and iPhone for $50 per month. Bernstein analysts said around the same time that there was a case for Apple buying Netflix to create a bundle to combat Amazon Prime. The concept of "Apple Prime" was born among Apple watchers and fans.VIDEO4:0804:08How to start investing beyond your 401(k)Invest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.No hardwareIt's unclear what exactly Apple will bundle at what price. It sells a number of subscriptions that give it a good start:Apple TV+, streaming video for $4.99 per monthApple Music, streaming music for $9.99 per monthApple Arcade, a selection of games for $4.99 per monthApple News+, an online bundle of magazines and newspapers at $9.99 per monthiCloud storage, which enables users to sync data between devices, starting at $0.99 per monthApple hasn't released subscriber numbers for Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, or Apple News+ since they launched last year. Apple Music has over 60 million subscribers. Apple said earlier this year it has 550 million subscribers, but that counts people who subscribe to an app on the App Store.The basic bundle could start with Apple Music and Apple TV+, according to a report from Bloomberg. Additional tiers would add Arcade, News+, and iCloud storage for an additional fee — but still less than what the services would cost separately. One thing that's unlikely to be included in the bundle: hardware.Analyst Toni Sacconaghi asked Cook directly about a hardware bundle on a conference call last fall. He didn't shoot down the idea, but suggested that something like it was already in effect. ″In terms of hardware as a service or as a bundle, if you will, there are customers today that essentially view the hardware like that because they're on upgrade plans and so forth," Cook said during an earnings call. "So to some degree that exists today."But Cook also said that he expects hardware as a service or bundle will "grow disproportionately" in the future. Apple has an iPhone upgrade program, introduced in 2015, which charges users on a monthly basis and gives them the option to trade in their old iPhone for the newest model once a year. And last fall, Apple began to offer interest-free financing for Apple products through its Apple Card credit card partnership with Goldman Sachs. Ultimately, Apple doesn't look at its business the way Wall Street does. It sees Apple as an entire ecosystem building on itself. If a user has an iPhone, they will have a better experience if they also heavily use Apple software and services, and perhaps be more likely to buy AirPods or an Apple Watch — or an Apple One bundle. The entire ecosystem is the bundle. If Apple releases the Apple One bundle this fall, it won't talk about P/E ratios or whether the company is more valuable as a software-plus-services company. It will more likely emphasize how great its services are and why give customers more benefit for being part of the Apple ecosystem.VIDEO3:0603:06These common mistakes will cost investors money during the coronavirusInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.

2020/09/17, Apple Watch Series 6 in blueTodd Haselton | CNBCThere's now an Apple Watch for all price ranges.Apple unveiled two new models this week — the high-end Series 6, which starts at $399, and the midrange Apple Watch SE, which starts at $279.Apple will continue to sell the Apple Watch Series 3 for $199.The new lineup gives Apple a wider market since billions of people have smartphones, but Canalys expects just 150 million will have smartwatches in 2020. That's a lot, but shows there are still tons of untapped buyers. It's just up to smartwatch makers like Apple, Huawei, Garmin, Fitbit and Samsung to reach them with compelling offerings.I have the Apple Watch Series 6 here, so I'll show you a bit of what it's like and explain how it stands out against the other models.But, real quick, if you think about the new family of Apple Watches in terms of features available, it's easy to think of it like this: The Series 3 at $199 is good. The Series SE at $279 is better. The $399 model is best. What actually might be best for you depends what you want out of the watch, and how much you're willing to spend.Here's what you need to know about the new Apple Watches and a first look at the Series 6, which launches on Friday along with the SE.The Series 6 has it allThe Series 6 has all the fun new stuff you might want in an Apple Watch. It looks great, pretty much identical to last year's Series 5 and the Apple Watch SE.Apple Watch Series 6 in blueTodd Haselton | CNBCApple says a new processor makes the Series 6 20% faster than the Series 5, which never felt slow to me in the first place. It has a newer always-on display that's brighter. That means you can always see the watch face, even in bright sunlight, which I've already noticed works well. And "always-on" means it doesn't turn off automatically as it does on other Apple Watches. Apple Watch Series 6Todd Haselton | CNBCThe Series 6 also has Apple's most advanced sensors. You can run the ECG app for an electrocardiogram, for example, a feature that's not on the Apple Watch SE or Series 3. It's also the only model with the new blood-oxygen app. I tried that and it told me my blood oxygen was 96%, which seems good.Trying the blood oximeter.Todd Haselton | CNBCBut Apple is careful to explain that this isn't a medical device. You can use it if you're curious about your blood oxygen when you're hiking at high altitudes, but Apple isn't making any promises about detecting low oxygen should you fall ill with coronavirus.Finally, the Series 6 is available in several new colors, including blue aluminum (the model I have), red, graphite steel and a polished gold steel. I love the new blue color. It's an option along with red in the $399 price range.Apple Watch Series 6 in blueTodd Haselton | CNBCThis is the new braided solo loop band. It's stretchy so you can pop your hand in and out without having to undo any straps.This new band doesn't have any clasps, just slide it over your wrist.Todd Haselton | CNBCYou have to buy the Series 6 if you want steel with the harder sapphire screen, since that isn't an option on the two other models. I recommend sapphire if you scratch up watches as easily as I do.Apple Watch Series 6, the new Memoji face looks like me.Todd Haselton | CNBCAlright, on to the other models. As a quick point, all of the features in the watches I'm about to talk about are also in the Apple Watch Series 6.The Apple Watch SEThe Apple Watch SE is seen on a laptop computer during a virtual product launch in Tiskilwa, Illinois, U.S., on Tuesday, Sept. 15, 2020.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesI don't have this model yet, but I think the Apple Watch SE is probably going to be a hot seller along with the $199 Series 3 given the price.It has the same-size screen as the Series 6, though it isn't always on, so you need to lift your wrist to see it. It has fall detection, which can tell if you've accidentally fallen and even automatically dial 911 or your local emergency number. It has last year's processor, which I've always found to be plenty fast for running applications, a new always-on altimeter so you can track your altitude as you hike or bike or just walk up stairs. And it has a new improved speaker and microphone for when you talk to Siri or place phone calls through your wrist.Like the Series 6, it supports Family Setup, so a family member, such as a child, can use an Apple Watch without an iPhone.So big differences here: It can't do the ECG, doesn't have the blood-oxygen monitor, doesn't have an always-on display and is only available in aluminum models. For $279, that's still a pretty good deal.Apple Watch Series 3Apple Watch Series 3Nina Raja | CNBCThe Series 3 is similar to the Apple Watch Series 3 that launched in 2017 for $329. It's still a great watch but has a slightly smaller screen than the Apple Watch SE and Apple Watch Series 6. It's still water resistant and "swimproof," just like the other models, so you can shower or surf or whatever without worrying too much about damaging it.It doesn't have fall detection, a blood-oxygen app or an ECG app, but it can still detect your heart rate and alert you if it goes too high or too low, and detect irregular heart rhythms. It doesn't have a compass or an always-on altimeter, but it still has a regular altimeter if you want to manually check it.It has the same S3 chip that first launched in the Series 3. I haven't used the latest software on one of these older models, but it probably runs a bit slower than it does on the Apple Watch SE and certainly on the Apple Watch Series 6. Finally, there's no cellular model available in the regular Series 3, so you can't leave your phone behind and still place calls or receive text messages.WatchOS 7watchOS 7 includes sleep tracking support.AppleThe good news is the same software powers most of the experiences across the Apple Watches. It's part of what makes them so compelling in the first place.So, no matter what model you choose, you'll still get some of the compelling new features introduced this year, like sleep tracking. All of the Apple Watch models work for mobile payments, too, so you can just tap your watch at a checkout counter when you're buying something instead of taking out a card. I find that pretty convenient and important during the pandemic.You'll also get thousands of third-party apps and popular ones made by Apple, like automatic workout detection, a fitness app that encourages you to close rings by being more active, messages and more. They'll work with Apple's new Fitness+ subscription service launching later this year, which will show workout videos on your iPhone, iPad or Apple TV with overlays of stats from your Apple Watch, like your heart rate.VIDEO1:4101:41Apple introduces new watches, apps and iPads during September product eventNews VideosSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube.Correction: The Apple Watch Series 3 does not support family setup. 

