2021/05/07, In this articleAMZNToby Melville | ReutersAmazon is using old-school snail mail to make sure the sellers on its marketplace really live where they say they do. After requiring third-party sellers to make their business names and addresses public in September, Amazon is now making sure their addresses are authentic and accurate. To do this, the company began mailing postcards to third-party merchants who sell on its U.S. marketplace to verify their addresses, according to an email reviewed by CNBC."As part of our commitment to provide a safe and trustworthy shopping experience for our customers and selling partners, we need to verify the business address displayed on your Amazon.com seller profile page," the email says, adding that merchants won't be prevented from selling on the platform while their address is being verified. Here's what the postcards look like:Amazon is mailing postcards like this one to third-party sellers to verify the address listed on their profile.CNBCOn the postcard is a verification code that sellers are instructed to enter on an internal portal. Here, the recipient's address and verification code have been obscured to protect their identity.CNBCAmazon confirmed to CNBC that it began testing the initiative with new sellers last year, then started including some existing sellers at the beginning of this year. The company said it now plans to expand the initiative further. Three third-party sellers told CNBC that Amazon informed them this week that they would soon receive a postcard seeking to verify their address. "We leverage a combination of advanced machine learning capabilities, robust vetting, and expert human investigators to protect our customers and selling partners from bad actors and bad products," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement. "Once a seller is allowed to sell in our store, we continue to monitor their account and its behaviors for new risks."We are constantly innovating in this space to stay ahead of bad actors and their attempts to circumvent our controls," the spokesperson added.How the verification process worksFirst, Amazon will contact a seller informing them that the company needs to verify their business address. Merchants then review and confirm their business address on an internal seller portal, called Seller Central. Once that's complete, Amazon sends out a postcard to sellers that arrives in a few days.On the postcard is a verification code that sellers are instructed to enter on Seller Central, according to a copy of the postcard reviewed by CNBC. Sellers have 60 days to verify their address. If they fail to do so, Amazon said, it can withhold funds from sellers' accounts.Amazon will block any accounts that prove to have an illegitimate address. And if a seller's postcard gets lost in the mail, Amazon will allow them to request a new one to be sent to their address.Last fall, the company started requiring merchants on its U.S. marketplace to publicly disclose their business name and address in order to make it easier for consumers to vet these sellers and their products prior to purchase. Amazon operates online marketplaces in more than a dozen regions, but its largest is in the U.S. As of late March, Amazon had more than 6 million third-party sellers worldwide, with more than half of them selling on Amazon in North America, according to Marketplace Pulse, an e-commerce research firm.Before the new policy went into effect in September, consumers could click through to a seller's profile to review buyer feedback and view their satisfaction rating, as well as contact the seller with questions.But there was no easy way to see where the seller is based or which legal entity is offering the product, unless consumers were shopping on Amazon marketplaces in Europe, Mexico and Japan, where sellers have long been required to display their business name and address, due to local laws.As Amazon has grown to become one of the largest e-commerce players worldwide, it has built up a huge third-party marketplace made up of millions of businesses that hawk their wares. Third-party sales make up more than half of Amazon's revenue. However, the marketplace's sprawling scale has opened up the company to a host of issues, including the proliferation of counterfeit, unsafe and expired goods. Listing seller information in the U.S., as well as verifying that it's accurate via the postcards, could be effective measures to help Amazon push more bad actors off the platform. Google also sends out postcards to verify addresses of businesses on Google Maps and other properties.For example, it's become a common tactic for merchants to create multiple accounts in order to continue selling on the platform after they've been suspended by Amazon, which is in violation of Amazon's seller policies. If a seller operates dozens of accounts, they'd have to display a unique business address for each one and verify that the address is real."It's perhaps the only way to answer the question: 'Is the address you told us an address you have access to?'" said Juozas Kaziukenas, CEO and founder of Marketplace Pulse. "Otherwise a seller can enter any address, and there isn't a way to answer the same question, especially for international sellers. Amazon does require bank statements and other documents for new sellers with an address that matches what you submitted, but this is taking it further, and for old sellers."

2021/05/08, In this articleAMZNJeff Wilke, former chief executive officer of worldwide consumer at Amazon.Bloomberg | Getty ImagesJeff Wilke, a veteran Amazon executive and top lieutenant to Jeff Bezos, stepped away from the company in March. But he is keeping busy, learning new skills — including a key one for the infrastructure of the internet economy and technology-dominated market that now values Amazon at over $1.6 trillion.As Amazon's elite executive ranks change — in addition to Wilke's departure, Bezos surprised many by announcing he would be stepping down, and Andy Jassy, the chief executive of Amazon Web Services, was named successor to Bezos — the software engineers behind the C-suite power players go on doing what they do every day, and that attracted Wilke's curiosity once he had a little more time free up for intellectual exploration.In a recent interview with dot.LA, Wilke said that since leaving the company he hasn't been spending time on the golf course. The first thing he did was study computer coding language. "I spent the first two weeks learning to code in Python, which I thought would be a really good way to stay connected to the engineers that build Amazon every day and upgrade my skills since I hadn't written code in modern languages."More from CNBC @WorkJeff Bezos is obsessed with preventing this common workplace injuryMicrosoft studied brains during endless work meetings. The results? StressfulHarvard remote work guru: How to avoid the worst in return to the 'hybrid' officeNegotiating job benefits and perks in a post-Covid world of workThe former Amazon executive is not the only person learning or brushing up on their coding skills. According to careers platform LinkedIn, two Python courses ranked among LinkedIn Learning's 20 most popular courses in 2020.Codecademy, the leading online learning technology education platform saw over five million new sign-ups, according to CEO Zach Sims. "That's a 125% increase from the previous year," Sims said.The platform already has tens of millions of users in nearly every country on Earth and is free to everyone.Sims said Python is popular because the language is versatile and can underpin an array of applications. Instagram, Uber, Spotify and Dropbox were all built on top of the coding language. Dropbox, the file-sharing app, brought in Guido van Rossum, the creator of Python, to help create a sustainable engineering culture (he retired from the company in 2019).  Why learning Python is key to the internet economySims said the Python language is a "great beginner language for anyone and everyone," and whether you're interested in learning more about data analytics or back-end development, Python is great place to start. As technology keeps advancing, more companies have to evolve to meet the demands of consumers and Python is among the languages that helps connect the back-end of the servers and web to the front-face of the internet economy that consumers experience.Amazon, IBM and Google are among the major tech companies that have partnerships with Codecademy, but Sims said that from companies like Walmart to GM, coding is now fundamental.Zach Sims of Codecademy.Getty Images"Walmart is no longer just a retailer. They're becoming an e-commerce giant. Every business is a tech company and every employee needs to be ready for that," he said.Studying Python was a "reminder to me of how coding compounds creativity and invention," Wilke said in the interview with dot.LA.Coding is changing the way executives in major sectors of the market thinks about employee mindset. Take Wall Street. Martin Chavez, the former Goldman Sachs CFO and CIO, told CNBC @Work last October that we shouldn't rush to turn everyone into a coder, but it is important for employees to understand how coding and algorithms are changing the way we work."Not everyone needs to be a coder," Chavez said. "The idea of coding is valuable and wonderful, but the idea everyone should learn to code? ... I don't know, but everyone does need to have an algorithmic data, problem-solving mindset. That is a baseline skill for every professional in the workplace, no matter what the role is," the former Goldman Sachs top executive said at last October's CNBC @Work virtual event.VIDEO2:5302:53Wall Street won't be run by code, but algos will guide careers: Goldman expertAt WorkTraders, salespeople and data scientists need to understand each other rather than talk past each other, a problem that was occurring at Goldman as algos became more common. And "that applies in any business," Chavez said. "If you have one group of people telling another group, 'please build this software for me,' it doesn't work very well. You're talking different languages and talking past each other," he said.Recent usage statistics from LinkedIn showcase the rising importance of this job market "upskilling" as more organizations embrace coding. The number of non-engineers taking beginner-level programming courses on LinkedIn Learning grew 568% year over year through August 2020, and the most recent data on the popularity of Python is consistent with that trend, according to a LinkedIn spokeswoman."Python can be applied in numerous ways. From building a website, to become a data analyst or building financial models or understanding marketing analytics. It can only help employees," said Sims.

2021/05/07, In this articleTILEAAPLAMZNVIDEO1:2901:29Amazon versus Apple in the battle for the new shared networkTechCheckAmazon is beefing up its network of connected devices to take on technologies like Apple's new AirTags.Amazon announced Friday that it is partnering with Tile, a company that makes trackers for lost items, and Level, which makes smart locks, to use those devices to enhance its tracking network based on Wi-Fi and Bluetooth technology.The strength and number of devices on a given tracking network is key to its accuracy. That's part of the reason why many think Apple's tracking network will be so strong since it relies on more than 1 billion iPhones, iPads and Macs to help with lost item tracking.Tile has also been vocal against Apple's entry into the lost-item tracking space, recently telling Congress that it and other app developers are "afraid" of Apple's policies for third-party apps and hardware accessories.Amazon's partnership will allow it beef up its tracking network, called Sidewalk, by letting Tile and Level devices tap into the Bluetooth networks created by millions of its Echo products. Tile will start working with Amazon's network beginning June 14."Sidewalk is all about the next billion things that are going to get on the network," Amazon product boss Dave Limp told CNBC's "TechCheck" on Friday. "Wi-Fi is constrained, mostly to your home, it just doesn't have the range to go into your backyard into the neighborhood. Cellular may be the future, but it's very expensive today. So Sidewalk kind of splits the difference between those two and allows us to put millions and billions of things on the edge of the network but do it in a secure way."Sidewalk rolled out late last year and is billed as a free network sharing service throughout neighborhoods that uses Echo devices as "bridges" to share a small fraction of a users' low-bandwidth Wi-Fi with devices like Echo devices and Ring cameras.Limp said in a statement that Tile will work with Sidewalk by integrating compatible Echo devices to extend Tile's network coverage even further, in the effort to help users securely locate misplaced keys, wallets and other items.Amazon said Sidewalk will also strengthen Tile's existing in-home finding experience with Alexa. Customers can say, "Alexa, find my keys" and their Tile tracker will start ringing from a coat pocket or from under the bed signaling where to find their lost item.Amazon also said users with multiple Echo devices connected to Sidewalk will be able to find misplaced items around their homes even faster. Alexa can tell users which Echo device their Tiled item is closer to, whether it is the kitchen speaker or their bedroom speaker and the day and time it was last seen near that device.Apple announced its Tile-like product, AirTags, last month. They work in a similar way with iOS devices like iPhones and iPads. Now, Tile will connect through a larger technology ecosystem, pitting Amazon and Apple against each other in a new front of connected devices.Sidewalk's second partnership with Level allows users to control their locks in the Ring and Level apps without needing to be in Bluetooth range of their mobile device. Instead of relying on their mobile device's Bluetooth connection, a Level lock will be able to connect directly to a compatible Ring Video Doorbell Pro device using an Amazon Sidewalk Bluetooth connection shared only between their two devices.This means that even if a user is across town, their Level lock will stay connected, creating further functionalities within the Ring app to see and speak with whomever is at the entryway and easily lock or unlock their front door.Amazon said its new smart-lock Level features are rolling out through updates in the Ring and Level apps and will be available by the end of May.In response to privacy concerns, Amazon last September released a detailed white paper outlining the steps it's taking to ensure that Sidewalk transmissions stay private and secure.Amazon said Sidewalk is equipped with multiple layers of privacy and security and that data shared over its network is protected with three layers of encryption. It's only accessible by the devices consumers choose, and data is automatically deleted every 24 hours to protect privacy. Consumers can choose to opt out of the feature by updating their preference in the Ring or Alexa mobile apps.--CNBC's Marc Gilbert contributed to this report.

2021/05/07, In this articleAMZNThe Amazon fulfillment warehouse at the center of a unionization drive is seen on March 28, 2021 in Bessemer, Alabama.Elijah Nouvelage | Getty Images News | Getty ImagesAn Amazon employee died at the company's Bessemer, Alabama, warehouse, the company confirmed to CNBC. The facility was the site of a unionization effort that took place earlier this year."We're deeply saddened by the passing of a member of our team, and our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with his loved ones during this difficult time," Amazon spokesperson Maria Boschetti told said in a statement.Amazon declined to share further details about the situation, noting that it was a personal medical incident.The worker died Thursday after collapsing at the facility, according to Bloomberg, which first reported the news. The worker was taken to a hospital after being found in a bathroom of the warehouse, Bloomberg reported, citing sources familiar with the situation.Workers at the Bessemer warehouse, known as BHM1, voted against joining the RWDSU last month. Of the 3,215 ballots cast, 1,798 workers opposed the union and 738 voted in favor. The RWDSU challenged the results of the election and filed objections with federal labor officials alleging Amazon illegally interfered with the union drive. Amazon denied that its conduct was improper.On Friday, the National Labor Relations Board held a hearing on the objections. The hearing is slated to continue on Monday.

2021/05/06, An illustrative image of Amazon Shopping app seen on a mobile phone screen in front of an old (L) and a new (R) Amazon Shopping app icons displayed on a screen. Amazon has quietly changed its new Amazon Shopping app icon, replacing the blue ribbon on top that drew some unfavorable comparisons. On Wednesday, March 3, 2021, in Dublin, Ireland.Artur Widak | NurPhoto | Getty ImagesAmazon's advertising business is soaring.The company's massive "other" business category, which is primarily (but not exclusively) ad revenue, grew 77% in the first quarter to $6.9 billion in revenue.Apple's recent privacy changes, which make it easier for users to block advertisers from tracking them, could add more fuel to its growth. Amazon holds an enormous amount of in-depth consumer data — as of last month, the company said it had more than 200 million global members in its Prime program. As Apple's App Tracking Transparency changes goes into effect, Amazon's data will likely become a more rare and valuable commodity for marketers. Apple's changes to iOS 14.5 mean that iPhone and iPad users can opt out more easily from the kind of tracking that helps advertisers target ads or measure whether ads worked. Although Amazon will also have to show this prompt to its customers, it matters less for the e-commerce giant. When users are logged in to Amazon properties, the company can still track what they're doing in the app, which ads they saw or clicked or purchased from, regardless of whether a user opted in or not.It's not yet clear how much other major players who rely more on third-party information (like Facebook) will be hurt by Apple's changes, or for how long. Ad agency leaders told CNBC their client budgets for the most part are staying stable as they wait and see how these changes will impact their campaigns' performances.But many in the marketing world said they see Amazon, and similar data-rich ad offerings from companies like Walmart or Target, as a reliable way to keep getting the kind of data they rely on to target ads and measure performance. Amazon's strong first-party relationship with consumers means it could still collect activity across its various properties. If shoppers watch an ad on Prime Video, for instance, and eventually make a purchase later on, it should be able to offer marketers that intel.With that status in the market, Amazon looks poised to keep expanding its role in the ad ecosystem. It could from its traditional role as a place where consumer packaged goods marketers push specific products to potentially expanding into a brand advertising powerhouse.Representatives from Amazon declined to comment on the iOS 14.5 changes and its potential impact on the company's ad revenue.What Apple's change means for Amazon's ads Apple released iOS 14.5 last week, a regular update to its iPhone and iPad operating system. The update included a new framework giving users more transparency and control over apps that want to track them for advertising. When users on the new iOS open an app, they see a pop-up asking if the app can access their unique device ID for advertisers. That pop-up will ask if they want to be tracked, and will show why the app wants you to opt in. For instance, an app might say you'll get ads that are more relevant to your interests if you allow tracking.The impact is likely to vary. In January, MKM Partners released a study based on a framework to determine IDFA risk to online companies, based on seven factors. Of the companies examined, Amazon would be among the lowest tier of exposure, they said. Experts largely see the "walled gardens" of Facebook, Google and Amazon as suffering less from the changes happening in the industry. Though advertising will lose much of the data the players have relied on, the large ones still have data around what people are doing on their own properties.But even on the tier of the walled gardens, the impact will depend, and social networks may have less data that marketers want than an e-commerce player like Amazon."Not all walled gardens are created equal," Mindshare chief data strategy officer Shane McAndrew said.When it comes to Amazon's bread-and-butter ad products – ads that let companies buy placement within Amazon sites and apps – advertisers are likely to see little impact, said Will Tjernlund, chief marketing officer of Goat Consulting, a firm that focuses on brands selling on Amazon. "The traditional, older advertising products within Amazon will see no effect. It should be just as good as normal," Tjernlund said. "Since they use Amazon's own data, they attract people within Amazon's own websites or own apps." And if users are logged in across different Amazon properties, that data shouldn't be impacted. For instance, if someone was logged in to Amazon's IMDb TV upcoming app, that data could be used for marketing purposes on the Amazon app, even if that user had opted-out of sharing their ad identifier on their phone. "All that data is fair game for use in targeting ads to Amazon users on Amazon-owned properties," analyst and owner of website Mobile Dev Memo Eric Seufert said.Where advertisers could start to run into some difficulty with Amazon in a post-IDFA world involves the company's ad products that involve off-site tracking, which aren't a huge proportion of its business. For instance, Amazon may struggle somewhat with its demand-side platform, which advertisers can use to reach consumers both on Amazon properties and on third-party sites.Amazon doesn't break out revenue for its various products publicly, but experts believe ads running off-site are a fairly small proportion of its ad business. EMarketer estimates 89% of Amazon's net digital ad revenues in the U.S. are from e-commerce channel ads, meaning on-site ads likely constitute the vast majority.Following the changes by Apple and Google, which is planning to deprecate third-party tracking cookies, tracking off-site is not going to be as easy."It's going to be a challenge for them to be able to buy media off-site off of their properties, using their data. We know that's going to be an issue on desktop, it's going to be an issue on mobile," Forrester senior analyst Collin Colburn said. "The headwind is certainly going to be off-site, which has been a category that they've been trying to grow."The pandemic and the rise of 'retail media'Amazon sits at the forefront of another trend in marketing.With so many consumers at home and not purchasing in stores at the beginning of the pandemic, brands were looking for even more intel into who their customers are and how they were buying. Walmart, Target, CVS, Kroger and a slew of other companies have ad offerings in the "retail media" space – the ability to target ads for products where consumers are actually buying them on those sites. Forrester Research estimates brands spent at least $5 billion on retail media in 2020. Though some of these offerings have existed for years, retailers like Walmart have been doubling down in the area."It's booming. I mean, it's absolutely huge at this point," Colburn said. "We were very conservative in saying that brands spent at least $5 billion on retail media in 2020. It's much more than that." In a world where advertisers have a more difficult time tracking consumers across sites, retail media solutions are a way to get more insight at the point of purchase.  "The problem is when you click on a Google ad or a Facebook ad, you don't know if it's converting or not," former Amazon employee and CEO of CommerceIQ Guru Hariharan said. CommerceIQ advises brands on their Amazon business. "You know it got clicked but you don't know who clicked it. So we're seeing a bunch of those dollars moving."Following Apple's changes, "the ability for me to target you as a profile or a consumer is reduced, which means it becomes even less measurable, whereas Amazon and Walmart are becoming more and more measurable," Hariharan said. "If you're General Mills, Walmart becomes a lot more interesting to you because grocery shopping is still happening more on Walmart than on Amazon."Moving up the funnel Advertisers want to know they're getting their money's worth. So even if they're running a big branding effort that doesn't necessarily urge a consumer to buy a pair of shorts or download an app right away, they want to know the advertising did something. Brands may be looking for environments to advertise that gives them those answers once that ability becomes more difficult, once they can no longer rely on as much third-party data. Amazon, with its extensive first-party data relationships with so many consumers, is increasingly positioning itself as one solution.Amazon's booming advertising business is primarily being driven right now by purchase-driven advertising. This includes "low-hanging fruit" like sponsored ads in search or elsewhere on the site, Mediaocean chief marketing officer Aaron Goldman said. But Amazon is increasingly making a play for more brand-driven advertising as well, which could accelerate growth significantly.Amazon has already signaled it's deepening its brand advertising initiatives. During its inaugural NewFronts presentation on Monday, the company highlighted opportunities for marketers to tap into its video properties, including streaming platforms Prime Video, IMDb TV and Twitch, as well as big-ticket events like "Thursday Night Football." To that end, Amazon said its ad-supported video content now reaches more than 120 million monthly viewers. Marketers and industry analysts told CNBC they believe it won't be long before Amazon ramps up audio advertising as well. The company said as much last month at the Interactive Advertising Bureau's annual leadership meeting, where it teased its upcoming moves in the podcast ads space. The company can leverage its recent purchase of podcasting start-up Wondery and its ad-supported Amazon Music service to drive additional advertising revenue, by allowing brands to buy ads alongside audio content. Amazon is also growing brand advertising on its core e-commerce platform by featuring sponsored video ads within search, which is a valuable tool for small and big businesses that sell products on Amazon."I think this is a massive opportunity," Mindshare's McAndrew said. "You're going to see them move purposefully into the brand advertising area in ways they haven't before. They've got all the ingredients," to win in this realm, he said.But there's still work to be done in this realm, MightyHive go-to-market director Nicholas Seo said."For some of these more creative formats that are more involved executions and integrations, there's a lot of work that needs to be done at the back end," he said. "I think the interest is definitely there, at least from our clients, but more so Amazon has prioritization to do as to where they want to focus. But we definitely see a lot of things ramping up on that side."And it could promote even higher growth."I still think they can keep growing at 70% just off the backs of direct response, I think they can get north of 100% once they start fully monetizing the brand opportunity," Goldman said, pointing to opportunities like video and audio ads. VIDEO12:4712:47Why U.S. malls are disappearingRetail

2021/05/06, In this articleAMZNAn employee of Amazon India retrieves products from an assorted storage area to fulfil orders placed by customers prior to packaging at Amazon's fulfilment center on the outskirts of Bangalore on September 18, 2018.Manjunath Kiran | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon is postponing its annual Prime Day event in India and Canada because of the countries' worsening wave of Covid-19 cases.The company confirmed to CNBC that it's pausing the two-day discount event in both countries, but didn't offer a rescheduled date in either country.Amazon launched Prime Day in 2015. The discount celebration is partially designed to secure new Prime members, promote Amazon's own products and services, and provide a sales boost in the middle of the year.India has reported a sharp uptick in cases over the past month, with the country accounting for 46% of new Covid cases globally in the past week. The country crossed 20 million reported cases of Covid-19 earlier this week, and media reports suggest crematoriums and burial grounds are overwhelmed with bodies of those who died from Covid-19. As a result, many states in the country have stepped up restrictions in recent weeks, such as lockdowns and curfews.In April, Canada's rate of new Covid-19 infections overtook that of the U.S. for the first time since the pandemic began. Canada has faced lagging vaccination rates compared to the U.S.Outside of Canada and India, Amazon said Prime Day will continue to move forward in other countries including the U.S., U.K., Germany, France, Spain and China. Amazon announced in its first-quarter earnings results that this year's Prime Day will take place in June.Typically, Prime Day takes place in July, but pulling forward the event to June will likely "be better for customers, sellers and vendors" as July is a popular "vacation month" in many areas, Amazon CFO Brian Olsavsky said during Amazon's first-quarter earnings call.Amazon was forced to put last year's Prime Day on hold until mid-October due to the coronavirus pandemic. At the time, amid a surge in cases in the U.S. and many parts of the globe, Amazon also faced a massive spike in online orders as many physical stores were shuttered and consumers opted to stay indoors to avoid the virus.VIDEO4:1404:14Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos releases final letter to shareholdersSquawk on the Street

2021/05/05, Saul Loeb | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos this week sold nearly $2 billion worth of shares in his company, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission compiled by OpenInsider.Bezos sold roughly $684 million worth of Amazon shares on Tuesday, the filings show, after unloading about $1.27 billion worth of stock on Monday. That means he's sold about $1.95 billion worth of Amazon shares over the past two days.The transactions were made as part of a prearranged 10b5-1 trading plan, according to the filings. Representatives from Amazon weren't immediately available to comment on the latest sale.The sales come one week after Amazon reported first-quarter earnings results, trouncing Wall Street's expectations as its business continues to be buoyed by the pandemic-fueled surge in e-commerce activity.Bezos has accelerated his stock sales in recent years, previously unloading nearly $4.1 billion worth of shares last February. Bezos sold more than $3 billion worth of Amazon shares last November.The Amazon founder previously said he'd sell about $1 billion in Amazon stock each year to fund his space exploration company, Blue Origin, which continues to grow and on Wednesday announced it will launch its first astronaut crew to space this summer. Bezos also earmarked additional capital for the Day One Fund, the organization he launched in September 2018 to provide education in low-income communities and combat homelessness. Last November, the fund awarded $98.5 million in grants to 32 groups.These initiatives are expected to become a greater focus for Bezos once he steps down in the third quarter. Bezos will turn the helm over to AWS CEO Andy Jassy and assume the role of executive chairman on Amazon's board.VIDEO1:2801:28Blue Origin opens ticket sales for space touristsSquawk on the Street

2021/05/07, Papa John's International Inc. signage is displayed on top of a delivery vehicle outside of the company's restaurant in Nashville, Tennessee.Luke Sharrett | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2021/05/03, Jaap Arriens | NurPhoto | Getty Images Amazon said Monday its ad-supported streaming video content now reaches more than 120 monthly users every month. The company said this is up from 20 million monthly viewers of that content in January 2020. Twitch is one main driver of the growth — although Amazon acquired the company in 2014, it only recently added ad inventory on Twitch to its programmatic advertising platform, whereas inventory previously had to be bought more manually. Twitch is best known as a platform where video gamers stream their gameplay live to large audiences.Other ad-supported video content from Amazon includes live sports like "Thursday Night Football," IMDb TV, third-party apps and Amazon's News apps. The figure of monthly users refer to U.S. viewers that watched Amazon's ad-supported over-the-top content on any device. The company is coming off of a hot earnings report for its ads business: Amazon's "Other" unit, which is primarily made up of advertising but also includes sales related to other service offerings, grew revenue 77% year over year to more than $6.9 billion in Q1, the company reported on Thursday.Amazon made the announcement ahead of its first-ever presentation at the IAB NewFronts. The spring NewFronts are digital media's take on the traditional TV upfronts, when advertisers have traditionally committed a large amount of their yearly TV spending. During the NewFronts, online publishers, platforms and other companies host presentations and parties to show off their programming, audience data and tools to media buyers. A late 2020 report from eMarketer said YouTube, Hulu and Roku CTV ad revenues represent about half of all U.S. CTV ad revenues. Of the remaining half, they said a large chunk likely goes to Amazon with its apps on the Fire TV operating system as well as on IMDb TV. The e-commerce giant opened up about some of its brand advertising initiatives at the IAB's annual leadership meeting in March. Its VP of Global Ad Sales Alan Moss said that with a slate of IMDb TV originals launching this year, it would be offering product integration and branded content opportunities to help advertisers "authentically align their brand with cultural moments and genre themes." The company plans to launch a standalone app for IMDb TV on Android and iOS devices this summer. Amazon said Monday that IMDb TV has seen a 138% increase in viewership year-over-year, and that 62% of viewers are between the ages of 18 to 49. It says viewers of the service spend an average of five and a half hours per week watching it. The company also announced a slew of new content for IMDb TV. Amazon said Monday it will begin streaming "Thursday Night Football" games exclusively beginning in 2022, after previously announcing it would begin exclusively streaming games in 2023.VIDEO2:5702:57'Tremendous peril' in Amazon's way of designing interfaces: VR pioneerSquawk Alley

2021/05/03, In this articleAMZNKansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes (15) talks with Kansas City Chiefs offensive coordinator Eric Bieniemy in game action during the Super Bowl LIV game between the Kansas City Chiefs and the San Francisco 49ers on February 2, 2020 at Hard Rock Stadium, in Miami Gardens, FL.Robin Alam | Icon Sportswire | Getty ImagesAmazon Prime Video's exclusive 15-game "Thursday Night Football" package will now debut in 2022, a year earlier than previously announced, the company said Monday.Amazon made history last month when it became the first all-streaming provider to agree to carry a weekly package of National Football League games. The technology giant is paying $1 billion per season for the exclusive rights.Amazon's deal will now run 11 years, matching the length of the Sunday and Monday packages acquired by Disney, Comcast, ViacomCBS and Fox. The Prime Video package is for 15 Thursday night games and one pre-season game each season.Amazon had always intended to have an 11-year package but needed to wait a month for the NFL to contractually end its deal with Fox a year earlier, according to a person familiar with the matter."We look forward to bringing Thursday Night Football exclusively to Prime members in 2022, a year earlier than previously announced," said Marie Donoghue, vice president of global sports video at Amazon, in a statement. "This expedited deal is an immediate differentiator for us as a service, as it gives Prime members exclusive access to the most popular sport in the United States."Amazon views "Thursday Night Football" as a sweetener to keep people paying for Prime, the company's subscription service that includes free shipping on many Amazon-purchased products. Amazon founder, CEO and Chairman Jeff Bezos disclosed last month that the company surpassed 200 million global Prime subscribers.A Prime Video membership costs $8.99 per month, but it's also included with Amazon Prime which costs $12.99 per month or $119 a year. All Thursday Night games will also be broadcast over the air in local markets.Disclosure: Comcast is the parent company of NBCUniversal, which owns CNBC.Watch: ESPN chairman Jimmy Pitaro on new NFL dealVIDEO5:4105:41ESPN chairman Jimmy Pitaro on ESPN+ and new NFL dealTechCheck

2021/04/30, In this articleAMZNAmazon driver Shawndu Stackhouse delivers packages in Northeast Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, April 6, 2021.Tom Williams | CQ-Roll Call, Inc. | Getty ImagesAmazon has long set its sights on being the fastest in the online delivery race. Its first-quarter earnings report on Thursday revealed just how much it's willing to spend to get there.On an earnings call with investors, Amazon CFO Brian Olsavsky said the company's capital expenditures, which include such things as logistics expansion and the costs of data centers, increased a whopping 80% over the trailing 12 months.While the coronavirus pandemic pushed many businesses to slow spending, Amazon plowed profits back into physical expansion, growing its transportation and logistics presence across the country. Olsavsky said the company added more warehouses and grew its fleet of airplanes and linehaul trucks. Amazon also continues to grow its contracted delivery network, often distinguishable by blue Amazon-branded vans, to oversee more than 100,000 drivers.All told, the company increased capacity of its in-house logistics operations, known as AMZL, by 50% year over year, Olsavsky said. Amazon expects to keep spending big in these areas throughout the remainder of 2021 and potentially into 2022.Logistics expansion is critical for Amazon as it seeks to speed up deliveries and, in the future, make the business of delivering packages more cost effective. Olsavsky signaled that Amazon is making progress on that front, noting that "our cost right now is very competitive with our external options." It's unclear whether Amazon has closed that gap when it comes to rural areas, which significantly increase last-mile delivery costs compared with densely populated regions.Amazon still relies on third-party providers such as UPS, FedEx and the U.S. Postal Service to handle a portion of deliveries. But the company has steadily grown its fleet of planes, trucks and vans to inch closer to its shipping partners. One estimate last August suggested Amazon now delivers roughly two-thirds of its own packages.By operating its own fulfillment and logistics network, Amazon can continue to optimize the process of preparing and delivering packages to shoppers' doorsteps. In doing so, Amazon has already shifted from a two-day delivery model to one- and even same-day delivery."What we see which is very helpful is the ability to control the whole flow of products from the warehouse to the end customer," Olsavsky told investors on the call. "It's turned what normally was a batch process, where we would hand off a large batch of orders to a third party once a day, let's say, to a continuous flow process where we continually have orders leaving our warehouses five, six times a day, going through middle mile and then to final delivery, either through our AMZL drivers or [contracted delivery] partners."Ultimately, these investments in fulfillment and logistics also strengthen Amazon's "flywheel effect."Amazon's increasingly end-to-end control of a package's journey from warehouse to doorstep has meant that consumers "get more precise estimates of delivery" after they've placed an order, Olsavsky said. That makes things like Amazon's Prime subscription service, which recently crossed 200 million paying members, worth the expense for consumers.As shoppers continue to flock to Amazon, it pushes more businesses to have a presence on the site and, if they're not already, buy ads and pay to tap into Amazon's warehouse footprint. Amazon makes money from selling third-party seller services, by taking a cut of each sale and collecting fees from sellers who use its warehouses. Revenue in that segment surged 64% during the quarter.VIDEO4:0404:04Amazon stock pops after earningsClosing Bell

2021/04/30, Saul Loeb | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon has nearly universal support among Wall Street analysts, and the e-commerce giant did little to disappoint those bulls with a blowout earnings report.The company continued a strong week for Big Tech earnings on Thursday night, beating expectations on the top and bottom lines for the first quarter. Revenue was up 44% year over year.Here's what the analysts are saying about Amazon's earnings:

2021/04/30, Blue Origin and Amazon founder Jeff Bezos.Mandel Ngan | AFP | Getty ImagesCNBC's Jim Cramer said Friday that any weakness in Amazon shares should be viewed as a buying opportunity."Even though Amazon is up a great deal, you will get a chance to buy it," the "Mad Money" host said.He predicted that Amazon, which traded up nearly 2.4% early Friday, could come down later in the day, asApple did on Thursday when it opened up 2% after blowout quarterly results but closed basically flat.By Friday afternoon, Amazon was up less than 1%. Amazon shares have soared nearly 15% in a month."They will be down at one point and you can go buy them. And you should buy them," Cramer said. Apple, Google-parent Alphabet, and Facebook, which hit an all-time high Thursday, have all had similarly strong gains in the past month after some rough patches earlier this year."These companies are for the ages. It's kind of like we've got a major league and we've got a minor league. And the major league there aren't that many teams in it," Cramer said Friday on "Squawk on the Street."

2021/04/29, In this articleAMZNVIDEO2:1002:10Amazon another big beat for Big TechClosing BellAmazon shares climbed more than 3% in extended trading Thursday after the company released its first-quarter earnings, beating Wall Street's expectations for earnings and revenue. Here's how the e-commerce giant fared, relative to analyst estimates compiled by Refinitiv:Earnings: $15.79 per share vs. $9.54 per share expectedRevenue: $108.52 billion vs. $104.47 billion expectedFew companies have benefited from the pandemic-fueled surge of online shopping as much as Amazon. Its first-quarter results showed the company's business continues to be buoyed by the pandemic, with sales soaring 44% year over year to $108.5 billion.Amazon's guidance for the second quarter implies that it expects the momentum to continue, which should help allay investor fears that business could slow in a post-pandemic environment. The company expects to post revenue between $110 billion and $116 billion, surpassing Wall Street's projection of $108.6 billion.VIDEO7:3407:34Breaking down Amazon and Twitter earnings with Loup's Gene MunsterFast MoneyCrucially, Amazon confirmed in its guidance that this year's Prime Day will take place in June, which will likely help year-over-year comparisons for revenue in the second quarter. Typically, Amazon's annual, two-day discount bonanza takes place in July, but the company postponed the event to October last year amid pandemic-related uncertainty.When asked about the Prime Day timing, CFO Brian Olsavsky said on a call with investors: "In many areas, July is vacation month, so it might be better for customers, sellers and vendors to experiment with a different time period. We believe that it might be better timing later in [the second quarter], so that's what we're testing this year."Outside of its core retail segment, Amazon's cloud-computing and advertising businesses continue to boom. Amazon Web Services saw net sales of $13.5 billion during the quarter, up 32% year over year. Amazon doesn't disclose advertising sales, but it's included in the company's "Other" category, which saw its revenue grow 77% year over year to $6.9 billion.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos also gave a rare glimpse into how the company's streaming service, Prime Video, has fared during the pandemic, as stuck-at-home consumers have relied on online entertainment. Prime Video is a key offering of the company's Prime subscription service. "As Prime Video turns 10, over 175 million Prime members have streamed shows and movies in the past year, and streaming hours are up more than 70% year over year," Bezos said in the earnings release.A Prime subscription costs $119 a year and includes a range of other benefits, such as free, two-day shipping. Bezos disclosed earlier this month that the company now has 200 million Prime subscribers, 50 million more than it had at the start of 2020.Physical stores revenue, which includes Whole Foods Market and other brick-and-mortar offerings such as Amazon Books, continued to fall. Sales slumped 16% to $3.9 billion. The category excludes online delivery, Olsavsky said.During the quarter, Amazon's sales grew faster internationally than they did in North America. International revenue surged 60% year over year, more than any other segment, while North America revenue climbed 40%.As expected, Amazon will incur fewer costs this year related to coronavirus safety measures. Operating income is forecast to be between $4.5 billion and $8 billion in the second quarter, assuming $1.5 billion of costs related to Covid-19. That's in line with what Amazon executives predicted last quarter.Amazon said Wednesday it would spend more than $1 billion on raising wages for over half a million of its U.S. operations workers. On a call with reporters, Olsavsky said it decided to move up the pay increase from the fall to this spring as volumes remain just as strong as they were at the beginning of the pandemic.Olsavsky declined to comment on Amazon's CEO transition plans, which will come into play once Bezos steps down in the third quarter. Bezos will turn the helm over to AWS CEO Andy Jassy and assume the role of executive chairman of Amazon's board.Correction: Amazon's revenue grew 44% year-over-year to $108.5 billion. A previous version of the story misstated the figure.VIDEO4:1404:14Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos releases final letter to shareholdersSquawk on the Street

2021/04/30, In this articleKSSTGTWMTAMZNA contractor working for Amazon.com cleans a delivery truck in Richmond, California, U.S., on Tuesday, Oct. 13, 2020.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon confirmed on Thursday that its annual Prime Day deals event will be shifting earlier this year, as the e-commerce giant looks to boost spending in what is normally a slower time in the retail calendar.The company has yet to confirm the specific date. The two-day shopping extravaganza originally has been held in July, but Amazon said it will now take place in its second quarter, implying a June event.Amazon has provided a second-quarter outlook for revenue of $110 billion to $116 billion — which surpassed Wall Street's projection of $108.6 billion, as it included an expected bump from Prime Day.During an earnings conference call, Chief Financial Officer Brian Olsavsky said Amazon intended to hold Prime Day earlier in the year in 2020, but those plans were thwarted by the Covid pandemic. Instead, the event was delayed until October, resulting in an earlier-than-ever kickoff to the holiday shopping season."There're a number of factors," Olsavsky said about why Amazon is moving the event up. Among those reasons, the CFO cited the Olympics taking place in July, as well as it being a "vacation month" for many families."It might be better — for customers, sellers and vendors to experiment with a different time period," he said. "We experimented the other way ... in 2020, by moving it into October. But we believe that it might be better timing later in Q2. So that's what we're testing this year."In past years, Prime Day has prompted retailers like Walmart, Target and Kohl's to offer competing promotions. And it likely will do so again."It creates excitement out of nowhere, right out of a vacuum," Marketplace Pulse founder and CEO Juozas Kaziukenas said about Prime Day."People will just buy more things ... and maybe it is a good time to do it in June, earlier," he said. "Because there's a lot of excitement about things getting back to normal, and people probably are going to be buying more clothing items and more travel-related items — that they have not been buying for a very long time."In the past, Amazon has used Prime Day to push and promote its fashion offerings, a growing part of its business. This could be its biggest opportunity to do so, as many Americans are emerging from their pandemic cocoons and are refreshing their wardrobes.The new timing could also prompt an earlier kickoff to back-to-school shopping for many parents. After the winter holidays, the back-to-school season is the second-busiest retail occasion.By moving Prime Day into the second quarter, Amazon also could be looking to soften the comparisons it will face as it laps the stay-at-home lockdowns of last spring, when business boomed. In 2020, Amazon's second-quarter revenue surged 40% to $88.91 billion, thanks in large part to shoppers' stockpiling during the health crisis."They've got a big number to beat," said Neil Saunders, managing director of GlobalData Retail. "All retailers are going to suffer from this. It's not manipulation, but it's definitely putting the trade where it needs to go to make the numbers look very positive."Other retailers, such as Walmart and Target, also saw a second-quarter surge in sales since they were deemed essential retailers and remained opened last spring. Others had to shut down stores temporarily due to Covid restrictions.Amazon didn't disclose the amount of sales it rang up on Prime Day last year, but it said third-party sellers on its marketplace earned more than $3.5 billion, an increase of nearly 60% compared with 2019 and a record for the small and midsize businesses that make up the marketplace."Prime Day is kind of a fake holiday," Kaziukenas said. "But I think it has enough excitement and enough marketing that whatever they put out, will sell."—CNBC's Annie Palmer contributed to this reporting.VIDEO3:2703:27Insider CEO Henry Blodget on Amazon's blowout Q1 earnings resultsSquawk Box

2021/04/30, In this articleAMZNAmazon CEO Jeff BezosAlex Wong | Getty ImagesDeep in the risk factors section of its quarterly report, Amazon changed one word in describing the importance of its founder and CEO."We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, including Jeffrey P. Bezos, our founder, President, CEO, and Chairman," the company said in its quarterly financial report Friday.As recently as its annual report three months ago, the word "particularly" preceded Bezos' name. It's a subtle but important shift as Amazon prepares to hand over the reins to a new CEO for the first time in its 27-year history.Amazon said in February that Bezos will step down as CEO in the third quarter, though he'll retain the position of chairman. The company named Andy Jassy, head of Amazon Web Services, as his successor.Bezos, the world's richest person, has long been the only name referenced in the key persons section of its risk factors. Bezos founded Amazon in 1994 as an online bookseller and has since turned it into an e-commerce, software and media behemoth valued at more than $1.7 trillion.Amazon's stock is trading near a record on Friday, a day after quarterly revenue and earnings topped analysts' estimates.WATCH: Amazon trend is here to stay, says Sand Hill's VingielloVIDEO4:4004:40Amazon trend is here to stay, says Sand Hill's VingielloHalftime Report

2021/04/29, In this articleAMZNAmazon logo seen displayed on a smartphone.Igor Golovniov | SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty ImagesAmazon's ads business grew at an astonishing pace in the first quarter.Amazon's "Other" unit, which is primarily made up of advertising but also includes sales related to other service offerings, grew revenue 77% year over year to more than $6.9 billion, the company reported on Thursday. That's almost seven times as much revenue as Twitter, which generates substantially all of its revenue through advertising and reported first-quarter earnings the same day.That growth has sped up dramatically from the 44% year-over-year growth rate Amazon posted in the first quarter of 2020.Amazon CFO Brian Olsavsky said on the company's earnings call that traffic to the site has been one large driver of the strength in its ads business. But he said ad relevancy and new ad products are also helping."The advertising team has done a great job of turning clicks into productive sales," he said. "We're using new deep learning models to show more relevant sponsored products, we continue to improve the relevancy of the ads being shown on the product detail pages and we've seen rapid adoption of the video creative format for sponsored brands, among other things."The digital advertising hot streak aided by stay-at-home trends has evidently lasted into the first quarter as travel starts to return and e-commerce spend persists, with companies such as Facebook and Alphabet seeing blowout results for their ads businesses. Amazon's cut of the industry only just cracked a 10% cut of the U.S. ad market last year and is expected to keep on taking share. Amazon's ads business appears poised to keep growing if the adoption of e-commerce ad budgets stays steady.Next week, Amazon will join companies such as Twitter, Snap and Google's YouTube for the first time in pitching advertisers at the Interactive Advertising Bureau's NewFronts event. The company's program promises to show "how to reach customers across Amazon content, services, and devices."Amazon shares were up more than 3% after hours Thursday following a strong earnings report, while Twitter shares were down more than 10%.VIDEO7:3407:34Breaking down Amazon and Twitter earnings with Loup's Gene MunsterFast Money

2021/04/29, An Amazon.com delivery driver carries boxes into a van outside of a distribution facility on February 2, 2021 in Hawthorne, California.Patrick T. Fallon | AFP | Getty ImagesDUBLIN — Amazon has been firmly bedded down in Ireland for years but looks primed to expand its presence even further.The e-commerce giant is reportedly opening its first fully fledged fulfilment center in Dublin to service the Irish market.Ireland has been served from the U.K. for years but this allows Amazon to avoid Brexit-related headaches with shipping goods across the Irish Sea. It has also reportedly held talks with the operators of Shannon Airport in the west of the country about opening a distribution center there.Amazon has yet to confirm the opening of the fulfilment center: "We do not comment on rumor and speculation," it told CNBC. But the reports, and the ever-growing presence of the company, has nonetheless raised eyebrows about what it will mean for workers in the country.In March, the British and Irish trade union called Unite the Union launched a hotline for Amazon workers in the U.K. and Ireland to report any issues they were having in warehouses.It comes amid a backdrop of unionization efforts in the U.S., most recently with a hotly contested vote in Alabama, which Amazon won."Unite's concerns would be the importation of the poor working conditions. Large employers in any sector have the ability to drive working conditions up or down in that particular sector," a spokesperson for Unite in Ireland told CNBC.In response to the hotline, a spokesperson for Amazon said that it respects its employees' rights to join a union.  "The fact is, we already offer excellent pay, excellent benefits and excellent opportunities for career growth, all while working in a safe, modern work environment. The unions know this," the spokesperson said.Retail challengesAmazon's expansion comes at a time of drastic change in Irish retail. Stores and independent retailers alike have kept their shutters down for most of the last year during the various coronavirus lockdowns.Edgar Morgenroth, a professor of economics at Dublin City University, told CNBC that Amazon expanding its e-commerce business in Ireland was to be expected."The Irish market might be small, but it's not a poor place so there is money to be made here. You would have expected that move anyway," Morgenroth said."The worry is that with that they'll both be able to serve the market better and also expand the range of services that they might provide. At that point it's going to inflict even more damage to the local retail businesses."Lockdowns have forced many retailers to start selling online, relying on delivery or click-and-collect services, when restrictions allow for it.Jade O'Connor is VP of product and marketing at GetLocal.ie, a platform for independent retailers to sell online, that launched recently to help small businesses in this situation."Shop local is absolutely the talking point of the last 12 months and it just makes sense because local businesses are the lifeblood of our towns, villages and cities," O'Connor said."For some businesses, Amazon is a very credible and very useful revenue source and for others it frankly doesn't work." Morgenroth said that the push for more local shopping is admirable but it is a steep uphill climb when footfall is dropping in physical stores. The gap between online and bricks-and-mortar is only widening. The volume of retail sales in Ireland was down 21.8% in January 2021, compared to the month prior, and online sales bumped up by 10.9%.VIDEO2:1802:18Plant-based food trend 'is here to stay,' says Kerry Group CEOGreen Shoots"That's the problem that you're increasingly seeing, certainly in the smaller towns, the footfall isn't enough to sustain them at all and Covid makes this even worse," Morgenroth said.Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, many small retailers are still racking up costs with running their premises but without people coming through the door."That's something that Amazon didn't have to do. They've actually made money. They've gotten richer whereas the local shops have gotten poorer. That means that they are much less able to fight the competition from Amazon." Data centers Warehouses will be far from the only buildings in Ireland bearing Amazon's name. The tech giant's data center and cloud business has been operating in Ireland for years, joining several major tech companies in building sprawling data centers in Dublin and neighboring counties. VIDEO4:0304:03Some concern about latest Covid-19 wave and lockdowns in Europe over coming months: Irish Distillers CEOGreen ShootsIn 2020, Amazon announced that it would be hiring 1,000 more people in Dublin and Cork, mostly for its Amazon Web Services business, in support, security and engineering roles. It brings the workforce in Ireland to around 5,000. Recently, according to a report from The Currency, Amazon acquired a new patch of land in Dublin for another data center facility. All of these moves – whether data centers or warehouses – mean that Amazon's footprint in the Irish market is only getting deeper. Morgenroth said that the ever-growing spread of Amazon globally may seem inexorable, but its vast reach continues to catch the eye of regulators on both sides of the Atlantic."Soon enough I would have thought from a competition perspective that Amazon would need to be looked at," he said.

2021/04/28, Amazon.com delivery trucks in Richmond, California, U.S., on Tuesday, Oct. 13, 2020.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesWall Street analysts say Amazon is shaping up to be a post-pandemic winner when it reports first-quarter earnings on Thursday after the bell.Amidst record profits, surging sales and subscriber growth, the momentum is not likely to slow despite the reopening, analysts say.However, shareholders are looking for that next catalyst to move shares higher with the stock up 6% this year, compared to the Nasdaq Composite, which is up just over 9%.The company's cloud business, Amazon Web Services, remains a top performer. Still, questions remain.Other commentary to watch for includes news about the upcoming Prime Day date, as well as the CEO transition announced earlier this year.Here's what analysts expect from Amazon earnings:

2021/04/29, In this articleAMZNAndy Jassy, Amazon AWSSource: CNBCAmazon said Thursday that its market-leading cloud business grew revenue 32% in the first quarter, a faster pace than analysts had expected and accelerating from 28% growth in the fourth quarter.The Amazon Web Services division is critical to Amazon's expansion plans, thanks to its profitability. It appeared in 2006, before rivals such as Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform, and today it has become a force in information technology as a top global software provider, exceeding the likes of Oracle and SAP.The AWS unit delivered $13.50 billion in revenue, more than the $13.23 billion consensus estimate among analysts polled by FactSet. That was 12% of Amazon's total revenue.AWS has come to play a crucial role at Amazon as its most reliable source of income. In the first quarter AWS contributed $4.16 billion in operating income, above the $3.87 billion FactSet consensus estimate and nearly 47% of Amazon's overall operating income. The operating margin widened to 30.8% from 28% in the prior quarter."We have firm confidence that we offer a lot of advantages to AWS customers, from functionality to a vibrant and robust partner ecosystem," Brian Olsavsky, Amazon's finance chief, said on a conference call with analysts. "And then really we also have less downtime and better security, which I think is super important to all of our customers, especially security nowadays."In the quarter Amazon said that the head of AWS, Andy Jassy, would replace Jeff Bezos as Amazon's CEO, and that former AWS executive Adam Selipsky would leave his position as head of Salesforce's Tableau business to run AWS. AWS introduced new computing instances that rely on its latest generation of energy-efficient Arm-based Graviton chips.WATCH: Amazon Web Services, Dish team up for cloud-based 5G networkVIDEO2:5902:59Amazon Web Services, Dish team up for cloud-based 5G networkTechCheck

2021/04/28, In this articleAMZNA worker loads customer orders into a waiting tractor-trailer inside the million-square foot Amazon distribution warehouse that opened last fall in Fall River, MA on Mar. 23, 2017.John Tlumacki | Boston Globe | Getty ImagesAmazon announced Wednesday it will give more than 500,000 workers a raise.Amazon will hike pay by between 50 cents and $3 an hour for over half a million of its U.S. operations employees, Darcie Henry, vice president of global human resources for Amazon, said in a blog post on the company's website. Amazon will spend more than $1 billion on incremental pay for these workers, Henry said.The pay raises will start to take effect in mid-May through early June of this year, Henry said. Amazon said it moved up annual pay review for positions across its customer fulfillment, delivery, package sorting and specialty fulfillment teams from fall to this spring.The raises are meant to help incentivize hiring for tens of thousands of operations jobs across the U.S., Henry said. The jobs will add to the hundreds of thousands of workers Amazon brought on in 2020, as the coronavirus pandemic pushed the company to go on a hiring spree to keep up with a spike in online orders.As the economy has started to reopen, some businesses say they've struggled to find workers and are pointing to expanded jobless benefits as a possible reason for the staffing shortage. Critics have argued that employers should consider raising wages to attract workers.Amazon in 2018 raised its minimum wage to $15 an hour for all U.S. employees, following pressure from politicians and worker advocacy groups. The company has thrown its weight behind the Raise the Wage Act, a bill backed by President Joe Biden and top Democrats that would increase the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour from $7.25 an hour by 2025. Amazon also touted its starting pay of $15 an hour as part of its argument against unionization amid a high-stakes election at one of its warehouses in Alabama earlier this month.The e-commerce giant is the second-largest private employer in the U.S., behind retail rival Walmart, with more than 800,000 employees nationwide.VIDEO4:2804:28Warren takes aim at FedEx, Nike, Amazon in push for corporate tax hikeSquawk Box

2021/04/27, In this articleNKEFDXAMZNVIDEO4:2804:28Warren takes aim at FedEx, Nike, Amazon in push for corporate tax hikeSquawk BoxSen. Elizabeth Warren took aim at FedEx, Nike and Amazon on Tuesday as she championed the need to raise taxes on corporations and the wealthiest Americans.In an interview with CNBC's "Squawk Box," the Massachusetts progressive senator specifically blasted the three corporate giants while describing why corporations should get with hit with a higher tax rate."What's happening right now in America is these small businesses ... pay their taxes at the full rate. They got to pay the whole thing," Warren said. "You look at businesses like FedEx and Nike, businesses like Amazon, and they pay zero. Right now there's a thumb on the scale in the tax part of this, and that is a thumb to help the giants."Big corporations' lower tax bills actually hurt small businesses by knocking them out of the competition, Warren argued.Warren's latest criticism of corporate giants comes as President Joe Biden and Democrats are looking to raise the corporate tax rate to 28% from 21% to help pay for a $2 trillion infrastructure package.Warren, a member of the Senate finance and banking committees, has been calling on the wealthy and corporations to pay what she believes is their fair share of taxes.One of Warren's latest battles has been with billionaire Leon Cooperman, whom she asked to attend a Senate Finance Committee hearing meant to focus on her proposed millionaires' tax. He declined to attend the Tuesday hearing.Warren again took aim at Cooperman, who often appears on CNBC, in prepared remarks for her Tuesday hearing."I'm disappointed that Mr. Cooperman decided he was more comfortable taking softball questions on cable news than subjecting his views to debate in the U.S. Senate" the prepared remarks said. "Mr. Cooperman may have been too frightened to come here today, but others were not."FedEx and Nike were mentioned in an April report by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy as companies that recently paid little-to-no federal corporate income taxes."The delivery giant FedEx zeroed out its federal income tax on $1.2 billion of U.S. pretax income in 2020 and received a rebate of $230 million," the report said. "The shoe manufacturer Nike didn't pay a dime of federal income tax on almost $2.9 billion of U.S. pretax income last year, instead enjoying a $109 million tax rebate."VIDEO3:5203:52Sen. Elizabeth Warren on what she considers a fair federal tax systemSquawk BoxThe progressive group Tax March has been targeting the two corporations in TV and newspaper ads. FedEx CEO Fred Smith said in a letter to company members that they "pay all U.S. federal, state, and local taxes FedEx owes, which have totaled nearly $9 billion over the last five fiscal years." Smith also discouraged the raising of the corporate tax rate as a way to pay for infrastructure.As for Amazon, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy estimated the e-commerce giant's federal tax rate was just 9.4% in 2020. That's well be low the "statutory" rate of 21%.The report also noted that "over the first three years of the Trump-GOP tax law, which dropped the statutory corporate tax rate to 21 percent, Amazon paid an effective federal income tax rate of just 4.3 percent on U.S. income."Amazon has pushed back on criticism by blaming Congress for the state of the tax code. CEO Jeff Bezos, meanwhile, has said he supports an increase in the corporate tax rate.Warren pinned the blame for the current tax code on corporate lobbyists such as those working for Amazon."How do you think the tax code ended up like it did? It ended up like it did because companies like Amazon sent armies of lawyers and lobbyists to craft every possible loophole that they would be able to use to pay nothing in taxes," Warren said Tuesday.Amazon invested a record amount of more than $18 million into lobbying in 2020, according to data from the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics. One of the company's recent lobbying recent hires was Jeff Ricchetti, the brother of White House counselor Steve Ricchetti.The Amazon lobbying effort focused on several issues, including tax policy.

2021/04/29, In this articleCRUSXSWKSWDCFSLRGILDAMZNTWTRThe Twitter App loads on an iPhone in this illustration photograph taken in Los Angeles, California.Mike Blake | ReutersCheck out the companies making headlines after the bell on Thursday:Twitter — Shares of the social media giant fell 9.4% after the company's first-quarter results revealed a miss on user-growth expectations. Twitter reported 199 million monetizable daily users, and analysts polled by FactSet expected 200 million.Amazon — The e-commerce titan's stock rose 3.3% after the company released first-quarter results that easily surpassed analyst expectations. Amazon posted earnings per share of $15.79 on revenue of $108.52 billion. Analysts polled by Refinitiv predicted earnings per share of $9.54 on revenue of $104.47 billion. Amazon's cloud-computing division also saw revenue grow by 32% on a year-over-year basis.Gilead Sciences — Gilead shares fell 2.7% after the biotech company reported disappointing first-quarter results. The company posted a profit of $2.08 per share on revenue of $6.42 billion. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of $2.09 on revenue of $6.75 billion.Western Digital — The computer company's stock popped 5.4% after the company released fiscal third-quarter results that topped analyst predictions. The company posted earnings per share of $1.02 on revenue of $4.14 billion. Analysts polled by Refinitiv predicted earnings per share of 68 cents on revenue of $3.97 billion.Skyworks Solutions — Skyworks shares stock dipped 6.8% even after the chipmaker posted better-than-expected results for its second quarter. The company logged earnings per share of $2.37 on revenue of $1.17 billion. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of $2.35 on revenue of $1.15 billion.U.S. Steel — Shares of the steel producer slid 2.1% after the company posted mixed results for the first quarter. The company reported earnings per share of $1.08, topping a Refinitiv estimate of 91 cents per share. However, U.S. Steel's revenue of $3.66 billion was slightly below a forecast of $3.68 billion.Cirrus Logic — The semiconductor company's stock plunged 11.4% on the back of disappointing fiscal fourth-quarter numbers. Cirrus posted earnings per share of 66 cents on revenue of $293.5 million. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv expected earnings per share of 71 cents on revenue of $302.5 million.

2021/04/30, HONG KONG, CHINA - 2021/03/12: American FedEx Express delivery truck seen in Hong Kong. (Photo by Chukrut Budrul/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images)SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2021/04/27, Cape Canaveral, Florida, United States - A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket carrying 58 satellites for SpaceX's Starlink broadband internet network and three SkySat earth-imaging satellites launches from pad 40 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on August 18, 2020 in Cape Canaveral, Florida.Paul Hennessy | NurPhoto | Getty ImagesThe Federal Communications Commission on Tuesday approved SpaceX's proposed modification of its Starlink satellite license, a win for Elon Musk's growing broadband network despite objections from competitors including Amazon and Viasat, among others."We conclude that grant of the SpaceX Third Modification Application will serve the public interest," the FCC wrote in the order. "Our action will allow SpaceX to implement safety-focused changes to the deployment of its satellite constellation to deliver broadband service throughout the United States, including to those who live in areas underserved or unserved by terrestrial systems."SpaceX filed the modification request a year ago. The company requested that, after its first 1,584 satellites are in orbit, it change the next 2,814 satellites to an altitude of under 570 km from its previous plan of an altitude above 1,100 km. The FCC's approval comes at a key moment for SpaceX, as the company has nearly 1,400 satellites in orbit and likely would have had to halt its rapid launch campaign without the FCC's authorization.Musk, in a tweet responding to the agency's decision, said the "FCC is fair & sensible," emphasizing that "99.9% of the time, I agree with regulators.""On rare occasions, we disagree. This is almost always due to new technologies that past regulations didn't anticipate."Starlink is the company's capital-intensive project to build an interconnected internet network with thousands of satellites — known in the space industry as a constellation — designed to deliver high-speed internet to consumers anywhere on the planet.VIDEO19:1519:15SpaceX is a leader in rocket launches, but Starlink is its golden ticketTechOpponents filed numerous responses to SpaceX's proposed modification, with companies including Amazon saying it would cause interference with other satellite networks. SpaceX's competitors also argued the change was too significant for the FCC to treat it as a simple modification, saying it should instead be included in a broader processing round with new satellite systems.The FCC dispute between SpaceX and Amazon spilled into public view in January, when Musk took to Twitter to allege his competitor is attempting "to hamstring Starlink," adding that Kuiper "is at best several years away from operation." While Amazon has yet to announce when its first Kuiper satellites will launch, the FCC's authorization of the system last year requires that the company deploy half of its planned satellites within six years. That represents Amazon deploying about 1,600 satellites in orbit by July 2026.While Amazon filed multiple objections to SpaceX's modification, the tech giant called the FCC's ruling "a positive outcome" because it "places clear conditions on SpaceX," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement to CNBC."These conditions address our primary concerns regarding space safety and interference, and we appreciate the Commission's work to maintain a safe and competitive environment in low earth orbit," Amazon said.More broadly, the FCC denied the claims from other companies of signal interference in its approval of SpaceX's modification."We further conclude that this modification does not create significant interference problems that would warrant treatment of SpaceX's system as if it were filed in a later processing round," the FCC wrote.The FCC's order requires that SpaceX issue a report twice a year that includes the number of Starlink conjunction events – meaning near misses with other satellites – in the past six months, as well as the number of Starlink satellites that were disposed of or re-entered the Earth's atmosphere.

2021/04/27, People hold a banner at the Amazon facility as members of a congressional delegation arrive to show their support for workers who will vote on whether to unionize, in Bessemer, Alabama, U.S. March 5, 2021.Dustin Chambers | ReutersThe National Labor Relations Board will hold a hearing on May 7 to review objections to a recent union election at one of Amazon's Alabama warehouses, the union that led the campaign said Tuesday.In an April 16 complaint, the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union accused Amazon of interfering in the closely watched union campaign held earlier this month at the company's Bessemer, Alabama, warehouse. Bessemer employees overwhelmingly rejected unionization, with fewer than 30% of the votes tallied in favor of joining the RWDSU.The union requested that the labor board set aside the election results. The union accused Amazon of retaliating against pro-union employees and threatening widespread layoffs and closing the facility if employees voted for the union, among other complaints.Amazon has rejected the RWDSU's claims that it interfered in the election. "Rather than accepting these employees' choice, the union seems determined to continue misrepresenting the facts in order to drive its own agenda," Amazon spokeswoman Heather Knox previously told CNBC.The hearing will be overseen by the labor board's regional director, who has the power to throw out the results. Either party can appeal the regional director's ruling to the NLRB in Washington, which can also order a new election.The NLRB confirmed the hearing date but declined to comment further. Amazon declined to comment.Correction: This article has been updated to clarify that Amazon has rejected the RWDSU's claims that it interfered in the election. VIDEO1:4101:41Union alleges Amazon illegally interfered in warehouse electionSquawk on the Street

2021/04/27, In this articleAMZNVIDEO2:5602:56Options Action: Potential Amazon splitOptions ActionAn Amazon stock split rumor sent options traders into a frenzy. The tech giant caught an initial bump higher in Monday's session worth about $32 billion in market cap, which is larger than nearly half of the companies in the S&P 500.Traders spent the rest of the session betting, by and large, that the initial bump was signaling more gains ahead."Amazon did trade above average call volume [on Monday], with calls outpacing puts by [a ratio of] about 3 to 1, and the most active options were the weekly 3,500-strike calls. Almost 16,000 of those were trading for nearly $40 a contract," Michael Khouw, chief investment officer at Optimize Advisors, said Monday on CNBC's "Fast Money."Those contracts expire this Friday at a break-even stock price of $3,540, or just about 4% higher than where Amazon closed Monday's session. If the company's stock were to split before Friday's expiration, those contracts would be converted based on the details of the split.For example, if the stock were to split five ways, one 3,500-strike call would become five 700-strike calls, each breaking even at $708.Amazon was trading slightly higher in Tuesday's session. The company has not commented on the rumor.Disclaimer

2021/04/29, In this articleFNFLXPINSAAPLFBAMZNCNBC.com's Pippa Stevens brings you the day's top business news headlines. On today's show, Steve Kovach runs through the big week in tech earnings. Plus, Bob Pisani breaks down the stock market performance during President Biden's first 100 days.Amazon sales surge 44% as it smashes earnings expectationsFew companies have benefited from the pandemic-fueled surge of online shopping as much as Amazon. Its first-quarter results showed the company's business continues to be buoyed by the pandemic, with profits soaring 44% year-over-year to $108.5 billion.Amazon's guidance for the second quarter implies that it expects the momentum to continue, which should help allay investor fears that business could slow in a post-pandemic environment. The company expects to post revenue between $110 billion and $116 billion, surpassing Wall Street's projection $108.6 billion.After a bullish start, here's the stock market outlook for Biden's next 100 daysIf the stock market is considered a barometer of success, President Joe Biden's first 100 days in office is starting off with a bang — a big bang.Since the election, the S&P 500 is up more than 20%. Since his inauguration in January, it's up 10%.According to JPMorgan, that is the best 100-day run for a first-term president in more than 75 years. The only other one close was John F. Kennedy in 1963, who also saw a return north of 20%.Ford CEO expects chip shortage impact to bottom in Q2, production rebound in second half of yearFord CEO Jim Farley said on CNBC Wednesday that he expects the chip shortage impact on business to get worse before it improves, but the automaker will be set up for a strong 2022."Second quarter is going to be the trough for us," he told Jim Cramer in a "Mad Money" interview. "We think this quarter is going to be our most difficult."Farley, who began leading the Dearborn, Michigan-based company in October, is counting on the landscape to brighten later this year.

2021/04/25, In this articleAMZNAn employee looks for items in one of the corridors at an Amazon warehouse.Carlos Jasso | ReutersIn his final letter to shareholders, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos urged a deep dive into musculoskeletal disorders, which account for about 40% of work-related injuries across the company and affect millions of workers globally across sectors. It is often synonymous with jobs in manufacturing and places like warehouses.Of course, Amazon's treatment of its employees has become a high-profile issue, from the recent union battle in an Alabama warehouse to conditions for its essential workers during the pandemic. And it has been cited for a high incidence of workplace injuries in recent years, though the company has said in the past that it also reports more workplace incidents than peers due to a more proactive safety culture."If you read some of the news reports, you might think we have no care for employees," Bezos wrote in his letter, released earlier this month. "In those reports, our employees are sometimes accused of being desperate souls and treated as robots. That's not accurate. They're sophisticated and thoughtful people who have options for where to work."But they also do suffer from MSDs that occur on jobs that include what can be described as robot-like repetition. The extended remarks by Bezos about this workplace injury amounted to one of the first announcements by a large corporation to draw broader attention to the issue, according to several experts consulted by CNBC. Estimates suggest that MSDs cost U.S. companies over $50 billion each year and resulted in between 21 and 32 days away from work on average between 1997 to 2010, and in addition to Amazon warehouse work, MSD issues in meat processing and poultry plants have drawn recent attention.The CNBC @Work Summit returnsThis fall, October 13, Facebook CIO Atish Banerjea, Bank of America Chief Operations and Technology Officer Cathy Bessant, WeWork CEO Sandeep Mathrani and Estee Lauder CFO Tracey Travis will talk building a resilient future and more. Register now.MSDs, often called "ergonomics injuries," are typically strains and sprains caused by repetitive motions, overexertion, or task performance in awkward positions and include issues like carpal tunnel syndrome and tendonitis. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, retail trade, manufacturing, and social assistance jobs accounted for 50% of all MSD cases in the private sector. While common in factory-line workplaces and among first-time workers, they can also occur through sports, desk-work and everyday use."MSDs are common in the type of work that we do and are more likely to occur during an employee's first six months," Bezos wrote, adding that the company launched a program to coach small groups of employees on body mechanics and safety which contributed to a 32% decrease in injuries between 2019 and 2020, while the time away as a result of the injuries "decreased by more than half," Bezos said in the recent letter.  "We need to invent solutions to reduce MSDs for new employees, many of whom might be working in a physical role for the first time."Amazon declined to provide additional information on its ongoing MSD efforts to CNBC.While MSD cases in the U.S. workplace have declined over the last decade, approximately 1.71 billion people suffer from musculoskeletal conditions globally with lower back pain being the most common occurrence, the World Health Organization reported. That number is expected to increase as the population ages and grows."Many of these injuries are actually preventable, they're not accidents, they're things we can work to avoid and make a huge difference to patients," says Anna Miller, vice chair for the department of orthopedic surgery and chief of the orthopedic trauma division at Washington University School of Medicine.The dangers of repetitive workWhile common among manufacturing employees working along the repetitive assembly line, they can also occur from sitting in a home office, conducting remote work.One of the biggest issues with MSDs is that there's no concrete reason why they occur and they can happen spontaneously from a seemingly menial task like walking up a flight of stairs, says John Dony, senior director of the National Safety Council. There's little research about how they happen, why they occur and who is the most susceptible. While older workers often suffer wear and tear MSDs, younger workers often try to "tough it out" or fail to understand the risks, Dony said. Some studies suggest obesity, genetics or smoking can increase the risk of MSDs but the data is not very clear on causal relationships, says Andrew N. Pollak, senior vice president for clinical transformation and chief of orthopedics at the University of Maryland Medical System.Very limited federal funding is devoted to this research, but large corporations like Amazon, which now employs over a million workers, can better collect information they can share with other companies. "That kind of research has been difficult to accomplish in smaller companies because you simply don't have the same number of people doing the same jobs as you do at a big behemoth like Amazon," Pollak says. VIDEO17:0917:09What it's like inside an Amazon warehouse during the Covid-19 pandemicTechMSDs can also lead to mental health issues for many frontline workers, and many people continue working even after suffering a strain because they need the money, says Miller.In many service-oriented jobs, workers feel pressure to continue working to make the customer happy and work through injuries to meet objectives, says Jaimo Ahn, a professor and associate chair for education in the department of orthopedic surgery at the University of Michigan Health System. "If you're not reaching your objective or you feel like you aren't where you need to be then you keep going," Ahn said.Solving the MSD problemIn addition to the WorkingWell coaching program included in Amazon's workplace safety efforts, which launched for 859,000 employees across 250 sites last year, Amazon is also developing automated staff schedules that use "sophisticated algorithms to rotate employees" across several jobs to prevent overusing certain muscle groups and injury, and that began rolling out this year.Rotational schedules are one of the simplest precautionary solutions that prevent sustained use of one specific muscle, as is teaching workers how to lift from the legs instead of the arms or back. Engineering out a task that involves excessive bending, requiring anti-slip shoes, or requiring workers to lift heavy objects with a partner, also help. Some companies already have these policies in place, but they are sometimes ignored or not well-communicated, Dony said.Other alternatives include automation and implementing robots or machines that minimize hand use and can help when lifting, or wearable devices that show surroundings and detect in detail the span and range of motion. Robots have been a source of contention when it comes to workplace injuries in the past, in some cases cited for increasing risks to human workers, including forcing workers to move too fast to keep up in an ergonomically safe manner. But the company's top officers have rejected that argument.Solving MSDs beyond Amazon, throughout the world of work and across many smaller, less deep-pocketed employers, begins with assessing the risk and walking through the workspaces. "If you never even go into assess what risk or exposure you're putting someone at, you're already behind the game," Dony says.

2021/04/30, Chris Ratcliffe | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCheck out the companies making headlines in midday trading. Amazon — The e-commerce giant saw its shares gain 1% in midday trading after it reported a record first-quarter profit. The Seattle-based firm said profits more than tripled to $8.1 billion and January-to-March sales soared 44% to $108 billion. The results blew past expectations with the company earning $15.79 per share vs. the consensus estimate of $9.54.Twitter — The social media company's shares plunged 13% in midday trading after its user growth results and second-quarter revenue guidance fell short of analysts' forecasts. Twitter's EPS and revenue topped expectations.Gilead — Shares of the biotech company dipped about 1.3% after missing on the top and bottom lines of its quarterly results. Gilead Sciences reported EPS of $2.08 on revenue of $6.42 billion. Analysts expected EPS of $2.09 per share on revenue of $6.75 billion.Exxon Mobil — The oil giant's shares slid 1.9% despite the company returning to profitability and snapping four straight quarters of losses. Exxon beat top and bottom line estimates during the period, earning 65 cents per share on an adjusted basis, while posting revenue of $59.15 billion. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv were expecting the company to earn 65 cents per share on $54.6 billion in revenue.Chevron — Chevron shares dipped about 3% after the company reported first-quarter results. The oil giant earned 90 cents per share on an adjusted basis, which was in-line with Wall Street estimates. Revenue exceeded expectations, although results were still below pre-pandemic levels.Newell Brands — The consumer products stock ticked up about 0.8% after reporting stronger-than-expected results for its first quarter. The Rubbermaid-parent company earned an adjusted 30 cents per share on $2.29 billion in revenue for the period. Analysts surveyed by Refinitiv were expecting 13 cents per share and $2.07 billion in revenue.Colgate-Palmolive — Shares of the household products maker gained 1.1% after both profit and sales came in slightly above Street forecasts for its most recent quarter. The company reported 6% sales growth despite difficult comparisons to a year ago, when consumers were stocking up as the pandemic took hold.Skyworks Solutions — Skyworks fell nearly 8% in midday trading even after it beat earnings estimates by 2 cents a share at $2.37 per share. Investors appeared displeased with the company after it gave outlook that came in below what some had hoped.– CNBC's Jesse Pound, Pippa Stevens, and Maggie Fitzgerald contributed reporting.Become a smarter investor with CNBC Pro. Get stock picks, analyst calls, exclusive interviews and access to CNBC TV. Sign up to start a free trial today.

2021/04/27, In this articleAMZNAmazon on Tuesday expanded its service that lets delivery people enter your garage and leave groceries ordered from Fresh and Whole Foods.AmazonAmazon is expanding its service that lets delivery people drop off groceries inside your garage.The company announced Tuesday that the service is now available for all Prime members where grocery delivery is available, or more than 5,000 cities across the U.S. Until now, some Prime members could get Amazon Fresh orders and Whole Foods deliveries dropped off in their garage, but only if they lived in Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, San Francisco or Seattle.The offering is a part of Amazon Key, the company's array of services that enable delivery drivers to leave packages in garages, homes, cars and businesses.Consumers have to purchase additional hardware in order to get packages or groceries dropped off inside their residence or garage. In-home delivery requires a smart lock and a camera, while in-garage delivery requires a smart garage door opener.Amazon has pitched these services to Prime members as a way to keep their groceries or packages safe from weather, damage and theft. The services have also raised concerns around the prospect of giving a stranger access (albeit, limited entry) to your home or garage.Other retailers have experimented with the model, like Walmart, which in January began testing grocery deliveries to a smart cooler on or near shoppers' doorsteps.Amazon is expanding in-garage grocery delivery as the coronavirus pandemic has pushed more consumers to try out ordering food and groceries online. The company's online grocery sales tripled year over year in the second quarter of 2020 and continued to accelerate in the second half of last year.VIDEO4:1404:14Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos releases final letter to shareholdersSquawk on the Street

2021/04/23, In this articleSHOP-CAFBAMZNThe front desk of the Amazon office is pictured in New York, May 1, 2019.Carlo Allegri | ReutersAmazon is quietly rolling out a way for some sellers on its site to engage with shoppers, in a move that represents a departure from its historically tight controls over customer data.Last week, Amazon began piloting a tool that enables U.S. companies that are part of its Brand Registry program to email marketing materials to shoppers who have opted to "follow" their brands. These companies can then notify those shoppers when they launch a new product or promotion.The follow button is featured in areas such as a businesses' store page and videos on Amazon Live, Amazon's livestream shopping platform.The tool, called "Manage Your Customer Engagement," is designed to drive repeat purchases for vendors and sellers and help them build a more robust following on Amazon's sprawling marketplace. In a video describing the tool, Amazon urges companies to "build your brand with Amazon."Amazon's decision to let third-party companies contact shoppers is somewhat surprising. Amazon has long prohibited businesses that sell on its site from soliciting customers directly, keeping data such as their email addresses private, largely to shield shoppers from spam. Merchants could communicate with shoppers via a messaging feature on Amazon's site, but only when it concerned things such as the status of their order.Shoppers' contact information will continue to remain private. Amazon will give companies aggregate data when they use the tool that shows them how many emails will go out when they decide to share marketing campaigns with their followers. Companies can also view metrics to see how their campaigns were received.As its third-party marketplace continues to grow, Amazon has sought to court major brands and build a more robust library of high-quality products on its site. Issues with counterfeiting and pricing tactics have made some brands wary of increasing their Amazon presence, but the coronavirus pandemic pulled in some of those who may have been hesitant to sell on the platform.More than three-quarters of U.S. brands, or roughly 78%, are currently selling on Amazon's marketplace, up from 55% in 2019, according to a February report from Feedvisor, which helps brands grow on e-commerce marketplaces.For now, the free tool is only available to members of Brand Registry, a program launched by Amazon in 2015 as a way to help businesses curb the sale of counterfeits. More than 350,000 brands have registered to be part of the program, which has since expanded to include other benefits.An Amazon spokesperson told CNBC in a statement: "Amazon is committed to serving our shoppers by helping them engage with their favorite brands. With Manage Your Customer Engagement, brands will be able to initiate email campaigns about new product announcements and offers that Amazon will send to shoppers who choose to follow the brand."Businesses have been requesting that Amazon launch more services to help them build more durable relationships with shoppers on the site, said Fahim Naim, a former Amazon employee who now runs e-commerce consultancy eShopportunity.On Amazon, which hosts millions of products, it's crucial for brand owners to be able to stand out among a sea of competitors. To that end, the company has increasingly launched new tools or improved existing ones, such as Amazon Stores, which are akin to a landing page for businesses, or Amazon Posts, which is an Instagram-style, shoppable feed of lifestyle product images. Amazon has also given companies more tools to personalize their product listing pages, such as interactive videos.Features like these have increasingly become table stakes on e-commerce platforms such as Shopify, WordPress and Adobe's Magento, Naim said. Those platforms have attracted small- and medium-sized businesses looking to set up a web store by offering an array of plug-ins and app integrations.Giving companies the ability to expand and differentiate their presence on Amazon also builds trust with customers, Naim said."Amazon wants you to be more cognizant of the brand you're thinking about because then you're going to go back on the platform to buy it vs. off of there," Naim said, adding that customers may be more likely to buy a product if they know the brand.Ash Crawford, co-founder of coffee and tea maker Quivr, said the ability to email promotions and product launches to customers will be valuable, since his brand currently has no way of reaching its customers on Amazon."Amazon considers the customers 'Amazon's customers' and not ours," said Crawford, who has been selling on Amazon since the beginning of last year. "This tool appears to be a loosening of those restrictions and a controlled way to reach out and to engage with customers of our products."The tool also addresses one of the biggest pain points among vendors and sellers — getting a new product off the ground on Amazon.Companies will often promote new products on Facebook with the hope that they can drive traffic to their listings on Amazon, or by inserting marketing materials in packaging."Amazon is so algorithmically driven based on historical data, so if you have something that has no historical data, it's very, very difficult to get Amazon to even order enough product," said Andrea Leigh, vice president of strategy and insights at e-commerce advisory firm Ideoclick and a former Amazon executive. "So this would give manufacturers another tool to try to promote new items."VIDEO17:2817:28How coupon code curators like Honey and Slickdeals make millionsRetail

2021/04/27, Aaron Jagdfeld, CEO, GeneracScott Mlyn | CNBCHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Tuesday:

2021/04/22, Inside Amazon's first Amazon Fresh grocery store in Los Angeles.AmazonAmazon's cashierless checkout technology could soon be coming to its growing line of Fresh grocery stores.Features of Amazon's automated checkout technology, called "Just Walk Out," appear in planning documents for a store under construction in a suburban shopping plaza in Brookfield, Connecticut. The technology allows customers to skip the checkout line by tracking any items they grab and charging them when they leave.Amazon declined to comment. News of Amazon's plans was first reported by Bloomberg.The documents show gated entry and exit lanes at the front of the store, where shoppers would presumably scan an app or credit card as they come in, as well as hardware to potentially house ceiling-mounted cameras that track which items shoppers pick up in the store. The documents also mention an electronic shelving system, a feature Amazon has deployed in its Fresh and cashierless Go convenience stores.Additionally, a large staging area appears at the front of the proposed store layout. Fresh stores have a dedicated section where customers can pick up amazon.com or grocery orders placed online or return their packages for free.It's unclear if the store will incorporate other high-tech elements featured in Fresh stores, such as its recently launched Dash Carts, which are smart shopping carts that let shoppers check out without waiting in line.In September, Amazon opened its first Fresh grocery store in Los Angeles' Woodland Hills neighborhood. It has since opened a dozen stores, located in southern California and in several suburbs of Chicago. The company also plans to open a handful of stores on the East Coast.If Amazon ends up launching cashierless checkout technology in Fresh stores, it would represent an industry feat. Start-ups such as Standard Cognition, AiFi and Grabango have all developed autonomous systems for retailers, but widespread adoption has been slow, as the technology remains costly and challenging to deploy in large store formats.Amazon Fresh stores are roughly 35,000 square feet, or about the size of a store in Amazon's other grocery chain, Whole Foods. The format incorporates a blend of in-store and online shopping, while offering consumers a variety of products at lower price points than the largely upscale options offered at Whole Foods.VIDEO4:1404:14Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos releases final letter to shareholdersSquawk on the Street

2021/04/28, A United Parcel Service worker delivers packages in New York City.Stephanie Keith | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2021/04/20, Amazon SalonSource: AmazonLONDON — Amazon announced Tuesday that it is planning to open its first-ever hair salon in East London as the e-commerce giant continues to explore new lines of business and promote some of the items it sells on its platform.The Amazon Salon, described in a blog post, will be spread over two floors of a building in Spitalfields, a trendy district near the City of London known for its shopping and restaurants. It will be open seven days a week.The 1,500 square foot space — less than a five-minute walk from Amazon's U.K. headquarters, which has enough space for around 5,000 people— will initially only be open to Amazon employees. Members of the public will be able to make bookings in "the coming weeks" by calling, emailing or visiting the salon.The launch of the salon comes as many people in the U.K. are struggling to book appointments for haircuts as a result of a backlog that has been caused by the country's coronavirus lockdown. "At the moment Londoners will take any appointment they can get," said London-based venture capitalist Simon Menashy.Amazon, which is yet to release a price list, said it will use the Amazon Salon to try a number of new technologies. It gave industry publication Retail Week a preview ahead of the official announcement.Augmented reality hair colorsAugmented reality technology will allow customers to see what they look like with different colored hair, for example.Elsewhere, new "point-and-learn" technology will allow customers to point at a product in the salon and view information on a display screen. If they wish to order the item then they can scan a QR code that will take them to a product page on Amazon.co.uk.Amazon said it will also give customers one of its Fire tablets to use during their appointment."We have designed this salon for customers to come and experience some of the best technology, hair care products and stylists in the industry," said John Boumphrey, U.K. country manager at Amazon, in a statement. "We want this unique venue to bring us one step closer to customers, and it will be a place where we can collaborate with the industry and test new technologies."In order to comply with the U.K.'s ongoing coronavirus regulations, Amazon is planning to use separation screens between styling stations. Customers will also be offered a free face mask and sanitizer, and temperature checks will be carried out.The Seattle tech giant said Elena Lavagni, who owns the Neville Hair & Beauty salon in London, will provide its customers with hair care and styling services."I am delighted to be part of this project — the salon combines classic hairdressing services with technology to deliver a completely unique experience for clients," said Lavagni in a statement."Our creative team of stylists, whose flair for hair is as intrinsic as their love for technology, will put the client at the heart of everything they do," she added. "I feel proud to use our 40 years' experience in the industry to help bring this salon to life."Amazon SalonSource: AmazonMonopoly issue?There are currently no plans to open any other Amazon Salons beyond the one in London, Amazon said.Since launching as an online book store in 1994, Amazon has branched out into a number of industries. Today, it operates businesses in cloud computing, music streaming, video streaming, gaming, grocery shopping and more.William Tunstall-Pedoe, an entrepreneur who sold his artificial intelligence start-up to Amazon, wrote on Twitter: "I'm beginning to believe there's no business Amazon will not enter."Like Google, the company has been accused of becoming a monopoly and killing off businesses that have been around for decades.Elsewhere in London, Amazon has opened three cashless Amazon Fresh grocery stores, with the first of those opening in the West London borough of Ealing last month. 

2021/04/27, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi speaks at a product launch event in San Francisco, California on September 26, 2019.Philip Pacheco | AFP via Getty ImagesUber's expansion outside of ridesharing is poised to make the company's offerings an attractive subscription bundle that will send the stock higher, according to investment firm Needham.Needham analyst Bernie McTernan initiated coverage of Uber on Monday night with a buy rating, saying that the company's push further into the delivery space during the pandemic would continue to pay off in a post-vaccine world.

2021/04/19, In this articleAMZNVIDEO1:4101:41Union alleges Amazon illegally interfered in warehouse electionSquawk on the StreetAmazon repeatedly engaged in illegal conduct that prevented a "free and fair" union election at one of its Alabama warehouses, the union leading the campaign alleges. The Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union late Friday filed objections to the National Labor Relations Board, accusing Amazon of interfering in the closely watched union campaign held earlier this month at the company's Bessemer, Alabama, warehouse. Bessemer employees overwhelmingly rejected unionization, with fewer than 30% of the votes tallied in favor of joining the RWDSU. Labor unions have organized some of Amazon's European workforce, but no U.S. facility has successfully formed or joined a union.In its filing submitted to the NLRB, the union listed 23 objections surrounding Amazon's behavior during the monthslong campaign, including allegations of employee intimidation and manipulation. The RWDSU said Monday it has requested a hearing before the NLRB to discuss its objections."The objections constitute conduct which prevented a free and uncoerced exercise of choice by the employees, undermining the board's efforts to provide 'a laboratory in which an experiment may be conducted, under conditions as nearly as ideal as possible, to determine the uninhibited desires of the employees,'" the RWDSU said Monday.Amazon spokeswoman Heather Knox told CNBC in a statement: "The fact is that less than 16% of employees at BHM1 voted to join a union. Rather than accepting these employees' choice, the union seems determined to continue misrepresenting the facts in order to drive its own agenda. We look forward to the next steps in the legal process."The NLRB declined to comment.The union outlined a range of objections in its filing, including claims that Amazon interrogated and fired a pro-union employee for passing out union authorization cards in nonwork areas, which is a protected right under federal labor law; removed employees from mandatory meetings who asked questions; and disciplined an "outspoken supporter of the union" after he challenged Amazon in mandatory meetings.The union alleges in the filing that Amazon sent multiple messages to workers threatening widespread layoffs and even possibly closing the facility if they voted for the union. Additionally, Amazon told workers that voting for the union could lead to a loss of benefits and potentially their pay rate, particularly if the union decides to go on strike, the RWDSU said. Two Bessemer employees previously told CNBC that Amazon had threatened loss of benefits and pay if the union were voted in.Several of these actions had a "chilling effect on support for the union," the RWDSU said.Amazon previously told CNBC that it held mandatory meetings with workers to inform them of all the potential outcomes that could arise from collective bargaining negotiations. Amazon said it highlighted that the union could possibly call for a strike, since it's the union's main leverage over an employer.Beyond claims of coercion and intimidation, the union argues that Amazon tainted the election by installing a mailbox in the parking lot outside the warehouse.During the seven-week mail-in election, Amazon directed employees to submit their ballots via the mailbox, with a sign on a tent surrounding it reading, "Speak for yourself! Mail your ballot here." Emails obtained by the RWDSU via a Freedom of Information Act request showed Amazon pressured the U.S. Postal Service to place the mailbox outside the facility in the weeks leading up to the vote.The RWDSU alleges that the mailbox sowed confusion among employees by suggesting that Amazon was involved in collecting and counting votes. Additionally, the mailbox may have created the impression of surveillance, as it was in full view of security cameras in the parking lot, which "could record the employees entering and exiting the tent erected around the collection box to cast ballots," the union claims.The RWDSU argues that Amazon's decision to install a mailbox was in violation of an NLRB order. It also claims the mailbox "destroyed" what the NLRB calls "laboratory conditions," or the environment necessary for employees to freely cast their vote in an election, and could amount to unlawful ballot harvesting.The objections mark the beginning of what could end up being a long road of legal challenges for Amazon and the RWDSU.The NLRB's regional director will likely schedule a hearing in coming weeks to review the objections, where both sides can present evidence. Depending on the results of an investigation, the regional director could decide that Amazon's conduct was so egregious that the results of the election should be thrown out.Either party can appeal the regional director's ruling to the NLRB board in Washington. The board could order a new election, or if the board finds that the conduct was extraordinarily egregious, it could order Amazon to bargain with the union.VIDEO4:2904:29Why this former NLRB chairman says Amazon diluted the yes votePower Lunch

2021/04/21, In this articleAMZNDISHCharles Ergen, chairman and co-founder of Dish Network CorpJonathan Alcorn | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesShares of Dish Network closed up nearly 11% on Wednesday, reaching prices not seen since mid-2019, after the satellite TV company announced a partnership with Amazon Web Services to deploy a 5G network on the cloud provider's infrastructure.Dish, in addition to distributing video, is attempting to become the fourth national wireless player, behind T-Mobile, Verizon and AT&T. The deal with Amazon is an essential piece of Dish's plan to develop a network from scratch that can more efficiently deliver more reliable 5G speeds than its legacy competition.VIDEO2:5902:59Amazon Web Services, Dish team up for cloud-based 5G networkTechCheckIt's also key for Dish to begin offering service by the middle of 2023. That's when Dish risks losing its wireless spectrum licenses if it still hasn't developed an operational wireless network.Dish will start operating "the first standalone, cloud-based 5G Open Radio Access Network in the United States, beginning with Las Vegas later this year," the company said in a statement Wednesday. The statement said Amazon and Dish will work together to see how organizations including Amazon and AWS use 5G or build their own networks. Terms of the deal weren't disclosed.Dave Brown, vice president of AWS' core Elastic Compute Cloud service, told CNBC's "TechCheck" on Wednesday that the collaboration with Dish will "absolutely" serve as a sort of case study Amazon can take to other telecommunications providers to show that 5G networks can run in clouds, rather than in data centers with special-purpose infrastructure.That could help Amazon expand its own cloud business, a key source of income that grew revenue by almost 30% in 2020.Meanwhile, Microsoft, the second-largest cloud infrastructure provider behind Amazon, also is keen to get carriers building 5G networks in its cloud. AT&T uses Microsoft's Azure cloud, and last year Microsoft acquired two companies targeting carriers. AWS already works with Verizon, the largest U.S. wireless provider.— CNBC's Alex Sherman contributed to this report.

2021/04/21, In this articleAMZNAmazon is bringing its palm-scanning payment system to a Whole Foods store in Seattle, the first of many planned future locations to roll out the technology.AmazonAmazon is expanding its palm-scanning payment system to a Whole Foods store in Seattle, the company announced Wednesday, the first of many planned rollouts at other locations.Amazon One, which debuted in September and is currently in use at about a dozen Amazon physical stores, allows shoppers to pay for items by placing their palm over a scanning device. The first time shoppers use the kiosk, they have to insert a credit card to link it with their palm print. But after that, shoppers can pay simply by holding their hand over the kiosk.Amazon One is distinct from the company's Just Walk Out technology, which allows shoppers to pick up items and walk out of the store without going through a checkout line. However the two technologies can work together, and Amazon employs them both at its cashierless Amazon Go stores.Amazon will initially roll out Amazon One at the Whole Foods in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood, not far from the company's headquarters, before launching the system at seven Seattle-area Whole Foods in coming months.The palm-scanning technology will be offered as just one of many payment options at participating Whole Foods stores, Amazon said, and won't impact store employees' job responsibilities.Amazon acquired the grocery chain in 2017 for more than $13 billion.Amazon has said it hopes to sell the palm-scanning technology to other companies like retailers, stadiums and office buildings. Last September, Amazon said it was in "active discussions with several potential customers."It's unclear whether Amazon has signed any agreements with third parties interested in using the system. The company says thousands of people have signed up to use it at Amazon stores.As Amazon has sought to expand and validate palm-scanning technology as a form of payment, privacy and security experts have also raised concerns around the dangers of shoppers' handing over biometric data to companies.Amazon has maintained that it designed the system to be "highly secure" and that it considers palm-scanning technology to be more private than other biometric alternatives like facial recognition.VIDEO4:1404:14Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos releases final letter to shareholdersSquawk on the Street

2021/04/22, Amazon.com Inc. packages sit in front of a FedEx Corp. delivery truck in New York.Christopher Lee | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon is the best bet among major tech companies ahead of next week's earnings blitz, JPMorgan said in a note to clients on Thursday.Analyst Doug Anmuth called the stock his "favorite FANG" and said that there was upside potential for operating income and revenue in next Thursday's first-quarter report. FANG stocks also include Facebook, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet.

2021/04/19, Rendering of a United Launch Alliance' Atlas V rocket carrying Amazon satellites.ULA/AmazonAmazon is preparing to send its first Project Kuiper internet satellites into orbit, with Jeff Bezos' company announcing on Monday that it signed a contract with United Launch Alliance for nine launches.ULA, a joint venture of Boeing and Lockheed Martin, will use its Atlas V series of rockets to launch the Kuiper missions. Amazon's planned constellation would include 3,236 satellites in low Earth orbit. The company has said it will invest $10 billion in to bring high-speed broadband to consumers, businesses and governments."We're determined to make affordable broadband a reality for customers and communities around the world," Bezos said in a statement. "ULA is a fantastic partner that's successfully launched dozens of missions for commercial and government customers, and we're grateful for their support of Kuiper."An Amazon spokesperson declined to comment on the value of the launch contract. The company is also not disclosing how many Kuiper satellites will launch on each mission, nor what version of ULA's Atlas V rocket it will use.Rendering of a United Launch Alliance' Atlas V rocket carrying Amazon satellites.ULA/Amazon"The scope and scale of the initiative will also provide an enormous boost to U.S. leadership in space, helping create jobs and providing steady, reliable demand for the launch services industry," ULA president and CEO Tory Bruno said in a statement.The ULA contract is Amazon's first with a rocket operator, although the company noted that it "will need multiple launch vehicles and launch partners" to deploy Kuiper satellites on time. That leaves the door open for future Amazon launch deals with the likes of Elon Musk's SpaceX, Bezos' space company Blue Origin, or European launcher Arianespace. Although Bezos founded both Amazon and Blue Origin, the latter company is private and wholly separate from the former.Amazon has not yet released a timeline for when Kuiper launches will begin.However, with the Federal Communications Commission authorizing those launches last year, Amazon is required to deploy half of its planned satellites within six years – or about 1,600 in orbit by July 2026.The company now has more than 500 people working on Project Kuiper, and in December completed initial development of the antenna that will connect users to the satellite network.In recent months Amazon has clashed with SpaceX in front of government regulators, with Bezos' firm opposing changes that Musk's company wants to make to its Starlink network, which so far has more than 1,300 satellites in orbit. The two companies are among an international cohort of competing global satellite broadband networks, including OneWeb, Astranis, Telesat, and Lockheed Martin partner Omnispace.VIDEO17:4017:40Behind SpaceX and Amazon plans launch thousands of satellitesTechBecome a smarter investor with CNBC Pro. Get stock picks, analyst calls, exclusive interviews and access to CNBC TV. Sign up to start a free trial today

2021/04/16, In this articleAMZNPeople protest in support of the unionizing efforts of the Alabama Amazon workers, in Los Angeles, California, March 22, 2021.Lucy Nicholson | ReutersAmazon last week soundly defeated a union drive at one of its Alabama warehouses, a major win for the e-commerce giant, which has long fought unionization attempts at its facilities. Workers at the Bessemer, Alabama, warehouse voted overwhelmingly in favor of rejecting unionization, with fewer than 30% of the votes tallied in favor. The Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, which led the union drive, intends to challenge the outcome, arguing that Amazon broke the law with some of its anti-union activity before and during voting. VIDEO1:1501:15Bezos addresses Amazon union vote in letter to shareholdersClosing BellThe outcome delivers a setback to organized labor, which had hoped the Bessemer election would help establish a foothold at Amazon. But unions, worker advocates and some employees at the Bessemer facility, known as BHM1, said they believe that the Bessemer election will fuel further organizing attempts at other warehouses across the country. Labor leaders say the Bessemer election also revealed to the general public the lengths to which employers will go to prevent unions.According to multiple workers and union representatives who described the tactics, Amazon unleashed an aggressive public relations campaign at BHM1, including text messages to employees, leaflets, a website that urged workers to "do it without dues" and fliers posted in bathrooms that urged workers to "vote 'NO.'"Amazon sent out text messages and mailers urging workers at its Bessemer, Alabama, facility to "vote NO."Amazon's greatest opportunity to influence workers came in the form of so-called captive audience meetings, which workers were required to attend during their shift. Amazon held the meetings weekly from late January up until ballots were sent out in early February. Workers sat for approximately 30 minutes through PowerPoint presentations discouraging unionization and were given the opportunity to ask Amazon representatives questions.  Captive audience meetings are a common tactic used by employers during union campaigns. Supporters of proposed labor law reforms, such as the Protecting the Right to Organize Act, which awaits passage in the Senate, have argued that captive audience meetings serve as a forum for employers to deliver anti-union messages "without giving the union an opportunity to respond." The PRO Act would prohibit employers from making these meetings mandatory.Amazon said it hosted ongoing meetings in small groups as a way for employees to get all the facts about joining a union and about the election process itself.The company also defended its response to the union campaign more broadly, arguing in a statement following the result that workers "heard far more anti-Amazon messages from the union, policymakers and media outlets than they heard from us."Why some voted 'no'Amazon's messaging in the meetings was more convincing for some BHM1 workers than others.One Bessemer employee, who started working at Amazon last year, said he felt Amazon used some scare tactics when talking to workers about the union but also told CNBC he didn't understand how the union would help workers at BHM1. This person, who asked for anonymity to prevent retaliation, said the RWDSU did not explain what they were going to do for workers and did not respond to his request for information about how they had helped employees at other job sites.Beyond his doubts about the RWDSU, this employee said he's also had a primarily positive experience working for Amazon. While some workers complained about the stressful, demanding nature of the job, he said a previous construction job prepared him for the physical labor of warehouse work, so he finds it easy. Amazon's pay and benefits are also a step up from his previous job.In the end, this worker voted against unionization.In private Facebook groups where Amazon workers engage with each other, other BHM1 employees shared their thoughts about the union campaign. One worker feared that if the union was voted in, employees would lose access to certain benefits provided by Amazon, such as its upskilling program, where Amazon pays a percentage of tuition costs to train warehouse workers for jobs in other high-demand fields.Another worker felt that a union wasn't necessary, asserting that if you work hard you can succeed at Amazon: "I voted no. Amazon is just a game, with rules. Learn the rules, play the game, move up, win."Mandatory meetingsSome BHM1 workers found Amazon's anti-union messaging too aggressive.One BHM1 employee who works as a stower, which involves transferring items into vacant storage bins throughout the facility, said Amazon designed the texts, fliers and mandatory meetings to convey a message that the union wouldn't help anybody. This worker requested anonymity out of concern for losing his job.The worker, who voted for the union, said he was wary of showing support for unionization in front of Amazon and his coworkers, and was nervous to ask questions, instead playing dumb to avoid getting fired.Aerial view of the Amazon facility where workers will vote on wether to unionize, in Bessemer, Alabama, March 5, 2021.Dustin Chambers | ReutersIn one mandatory meeting held before ballots were distributed in February, this worker said, Amazon sought to cast doubt on how workers' dues would be spent by telling workers that the RWDSU spent more than $100,000 a year on vehicles for employees. The worker was skeptical of Amazon's presentation, thinking that Amazon likely spent a lot more on cars each year than the union did.Union President Stuart Appelbaum said in an interview that the RWDSU purchases cars for some representatives whose job it is to travel from workplace to workplace to represent and service members. Amazon said it wanted to explain to workers, particularly those with no previous knowledge of unions, that a union is a business that collects dues and explain how those dues may be used.In another mandatory meeting, the two Bessemer workers told CNBC, Amazon circulated examples of previous contracts the RWDSU had won, trying to highlight the union's shortcomings. Amazon also asserted that the RWDSU was primarily a poultry workers' union that had limited experience representing warehouse workers. Appelbaum said poultry workers make up a significant share of the RWDSU's membership in Alabama, and many of the organizers who led the campaign, and approached Amazon workers outside BHM1 as they wrapped up their shifts, came from nearby poultry plants. The union also represents workers in other industries, including retail, food production, nonprofit and cannabis, said RWDSU spokesperson Chelsea Connor.In response to questions about whether it characterized the RWDSU as a poultry union, Amazon said it sought to highlight to workers how well, or poorly, the union might understand their employer.During the meetings, Amazon also sought to highlight negative outcomes that could arise from voting for the union. Amazon told workers the union could force workers to go on strike and that employees could lose their benefits in the future, workers told CNBC.The RWDSU's Mid-South office, which led the organizing at Amazon, countered Amazon's claim that the union would force BHM1 workers to go on strike, calling it a "fear tactic," according to communications distributed to workers. "Amazon has insinuated that the union will 'pull you out on a strike,'" said Randy Hadley, president of the Mid-South Council, in a February letter to workers, which also addresses other claims made by Amazon. "Here are the facts, our membership and our membership ONLY controls whether or not to strike by a super majority. This means nearly 4,000 Amazon workers would have to vote to go on strike. A strike can be useful when needed, but it is also very, very rare. This is yet another fear tactic by Amazon."Amazon said it sought to point out to workers that if a union is voted in, the union could call for a strike, as it's the union's main leverage over an employer.In response to questions asking whether it told workers they could lose their benefits if a union is voted in, Amazon said it looked to inform employees, as part of general education about unions, that there are many outcomes that can result from collective bargaining negotiations.Not the last effortAmazon employees, labor leaders and worker advocates are hopeful that the loss in Alabama won't be the last attempt at organizing the retail giant's sprawling workforce. There may be future campaigns at BHM1, too. The worker who voted for the union said some pro-union employees have discussed the possibility of approaching the Teamsters and pursuing a future union campaign at their warehouse.Elsewhere, Amazon workers and labor unions are considering different organizing strategies. The Teamsters is communicating with Amazon drivers and warehouse workers at a facility in Iowa and considering paths to rally workers beyond the election process. Amazon workers in Chicago have formed a group to organize employees at facilities in the area, called Amazonians United Chicagoland.A worker at an Amazon facility in New Jersey, who also requested anonymity, said they previously approached a union about organizing their facility. After seeing the outcome in Bessemer, the worker said they're going back to the drawing board and looking into more informal tactics for achieving leverage.Susan Schurman, a professor at Rutgers University's School of Management and Labor Relations, pointed to the Alphabet Workers Union, a recently formed minority union of more than 800 Google employees, as a potential model for Amazon workers.Unlike traditional unions, minority unions don't represent the majority of workers, only those who opt to join. They also aren't recognized by the NLRB, and they don't act as bargaining agents with employers.However, Schurman said minority unions can serve as a "pathway to majority unions" and can be a powerful tool for building worker support even before launching a formal campaign with the NLRB."Why not stay and build an organization and keep at it?" Schurman said. "Let workers recruit new members and demonstrate the value of a collective negotiating power."Appelbaum, the RWDSU president, said a minority union strategy is "well worth thinking about.""We haven't made a decision on that yet, but I think we'll look at it," Appelbaum said. "We know we're not going away."

2021/04/21, The logos of Google, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat and TikTok displayed on a computer screen.Denis Charlet | AFP via Getty ImagesDigital advertising's hot streak appeared to have lasted into the first quarter as travel starts to return and e-commerce spend persists, analysts say. Snap will be the first of the major ad-supported internet companies to report earnings on Thursday, while Alphabet's Google, Facebook, Pinterest, Twitter and Amazon will follow next week. These players have seen outsized benefit as certain stay-at-home trends have been accompanied by massive shifts into digital ad spend. Bernstein analysts wrote that if the fourth quarter of 2020 was digital advertising's "perfect storm," then the first quarter of 2021, and perhaps the rest of the year, will be "hurricane season." "Undercurrents supporting a strong digital ad year include an accelerating upgrade cycle from image to video, TV ad ripe for picking, and brand spend returning," they wrote. "Investor expectations for the 1Q prints are high across the board, though not without a little noise in the run-up to earnings."Some digital ad players had been expecting impact of Apple's privacy change, which goes into effect next week, to have impact in the first quarter. Bernstein analysts noted that the "IDFA boogeyman mostly missed 1Q, but an imminent rollout of Apple's policy could well hamper 2Q guidance commentary and management Q&A." The quarter also offered a time when some consumers were starting to spend on travel or return-to-work clothes, while others were still in lockdowns and were still looking for "distraction and delivery." Industry analysts have said they've seen evidence of strong digital ad growth in the first quarter, in part due to heightened e-commerce spend that was helped by the latest stimulus checks. Meanwhile, search is expected to steadily come back throughout the year as travel brands expand budgets. But digital ad-supported tech companies' earnings later this year will also show how likely certain trends that helped them soar during the pandemic, like e-commerce, will bear out in the future.Evercore analysts pointed out that June will be the first tough comp quarter for e-commerce names and the ability of these "Covid winners" to maintain big growth will help determine if there is a permanent pull forward of demand. Here's what else analysts have to say about the major ad-supported tech players as they prepare to report their first-quarter earnings. SnapSome analysts see Snap's revenue guidance for the first quarter as conservative since the company's management had previously indicated it expected to start seeing some impact from Apple's privacy changes in the quarter. J.P. Morgan analysts said they believe Snap's revenue guidance of 56% to 60% growth should prove conservative.Evercore analysts echoed that, saying that the 60% growth could be potentially conservative given positive channel checks and given the fact that the company said growth could be in line with the fourth quarter if momentum continued. They mentioned that Snap's acquisition of Fit Analytics, which helps consumers pick the right size of clothing when they shop online, is consistent with Snap's strategy to materially ramp up monetization using augmented reality. "Examples include Snap's partnerships with Clearly (eyewear retailer), Levi's and Estee Lauder which all benefit from the 'trialability' that AR uniquely delivers," they wrote. "While we believe FB and PINS are better plays on the Social Commerce wave, we are increasingly appreciative of SNAP's potential to participate." Wedbush analysts said that Snap more than doubled its advertiser count year-over-year in the fourth quarter of 2020, showing an inflection point for Snap as product investments are bearing fruit. But they still see room to grow."Snap has made material improvements in its ecommerce offerings, but is still in the very early stages of what we view as a long-term opportunity in social commerce, particularly through its augmented reality offerings," they wrote.FacebookCanaccord Genuity analysts said they expect another quarter of strong ad growth for Facebook, at 33% year-over-year. They wrote that would be consistent with management expectations that the ad revenue growth rate would remain stable in the first half of 2021 as any easing of e-commerce tailwinds are offset by easier comps. Evercore analysts believe that 33% year-over-year is potentially conservative, and foresee a 35% year-over-year growth. "As a side note, we believe that the very robust small business formation in the U.S. over the last 6 [to] 9 months has also been a big new driver of ad revenue growth for FB," they wrote.Wedbush analysts recently initiated coverage for Facebook with a neutral rating, citing headwinds from stronger privacy standards. "We're bullish on the commerce initiatives Facebook is building into its platform," they wrote. "While we do expect continued strength in those areas, a rebound in the overall ad market, and a continued shift towards integrating commerce into the platform, but are also balanced by our view that Facebook is the most exposed to privacy risks, particularly around Apple's App Tracking Transparency (ATT) efforts that will limit the Identifier for Advertisers, or IDFA." They wrote that what has been Facebook's biggest competitive advantage could turn into a near-term headwind as the digital ad world recalibrates around new privacy standards. "We're not making a call of Facebook's impending demise, but believe as the privacy landscape changes, there could be a more relative share gain from smaller digital platforms which also have strong commerce functionality," they wrote. Google Analysts foresee Google's ads business as seeing a strong first quarter, given a rebound in search and brand advertising along with continued momentum for YouTube ads. Bernstein analysts noted that YouTube ended 2020 on a "phenomenal note," growing its ads business 46% year-over-year in the fourth quarter. With a rebound in brand ad spend and strong user engagement, "the party should continue in 1Q and we forecast a 50% Y/Y growth rate for the quarter." "The $60 [to] $70B US TV advertising market poised to finally go digital and the channel checks corroborate as much," they wrote. They said YouTube may be best positioned to capitalize on this growth, with premium services like YouTube Select and traction on shoppable advertiser offerings on the platform.Canaccord Genuity analysts said they expect Google's fourth quarter growth will continue momentum into the first quarter as consumer activity normalizes and the vaccine rollout likely drove increasing search interest for travel. Analysts foresee a 24% year-over-year total ad revenue growth.Evercore analysts also see the street's ad revenue growth expectations of 22% year-over-year as conservative. They expect to see a 27% year-over-year growth in ad revenue. "We believe Google's exposure to Travel and strong positioning in Local (i.e., physical stores) will provide tailwinds for ad revenue growth under a reopening scenario," they wrote. They added that online retail sales growth will mean positive numbers for e-commerce ad budgets, which are a top vertical for Google. On top of that, they wrote TSA data shows a positive inflection in volumes from the beginning of March to April. Evercore analysts estimate travel had been 10% and 15% of Google's pre-Covid ad revenue. Mizuho said in a note that industry checks with a major agency showed Google's U.S. search spending growth has accelerated. Travel growth, in particular, moved from -20% year-over-year in the fourth quarter 2020 to 5% in the first quarter of 2021, the note said.  AmazonEvercore analysts said they foresee Amazon's ad growth to be 64% in the first quarter, flat versus the fourth quarter. Mizuho analysts agreed, saying that recovery in discretionary categories are being offset by pullbacks in essential products. "Although we anticipate an in-line quarter, Amazon is focused on brand advertising this year with its DSP, or Amazon Display network," Mizuho analysts wrote. "The potential appears compelling as Google generates 20% of ad revenues from its display network." All eyes are on Amazon this year, which just cracked a 10% share of the U.S. ad market last year and is expected to keep on taking share. Amazon's ads business is poised to keep growing if the adoption of e-commerce ad budgets stays steady.PinterestPinterest has been another digital ad beneficiary of the strength in e-commerce. The company has continued building out its advertiser tools and expanded globally, and Guggenheim analysts cited third-party data showing that the company has healthy momentum even as stay-at-home trends started to moderate in the first quarter and privacy impacts are uncertain. "We see Pinterest as uniquely positioned, given a high-level of user purchase intent, and anticipate substantial investor returns as the company further capitalizes on this value proposition," they wrote. Bernstein analysts said they foresee Pinterest's revenue growing 78% year-over-year in the first quarter, with a revenue estimate of $483 million."Management guided for low 70% Y/Y revenue growth for the quarter," they wrote. "While big accounts can always move the needle for PINS (positively or negatively), we've gotten good feedback from the long-tail of D2C advertisers engaging is shoppable pins ads. The Shopify integration that went live last year should also offer a touch more tailwind with the long, long-tail." Twitter On the back of a return to brand advertising spend, Bernstein analysts expect Twitter to beat guidance of a 16% to 29% growth rate to reach 36% year-over-year.In recent months, the platform has launched new products and shared progress on others, including a test for "shoppable" tweets and an integration with Nielsen to help advertisers measure audiences and outcomes on Twitter's video ads.  "One of the company's key drivers to achieving this will be diversifying its advertising revenue base to include a greater contribution from direct response, and management will likely provide an update on how the rebuilt MAP platform has performed over recent months along with its efforts to attract more SMBs to the platform," Canaccord Genuity analysts wrote. Those analysts foresee a 29.2% growth in advertising year-over-year.CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed reporting.VIDEO4:5104:51WSJ's Joanna Stern on what she is expecting from Apple's product eventTechCheck

2021/04/15, VIDEO4:1404:14Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos releases final letter to shareholdersSquawk on the StreetIn his final letter to shareholders, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos on Thursday laid out a broad vision for the future of the company, committing to extend Amazon's famous obsession over its customers to the same level of care for its employees.Bezos pointed to the recent union election outcome at one of Amazon's Alabama warehouses as an example of why the company needs to address challenges within its workforce. Last week, Amazon secured enough votes to defeat a historic unionization drive at its Bessemer, Alabama, warehouse, which if successful would have represented the first union at a U.S. Amazon facility."While the voting results were lopsided and our direct relationship with employees is strong, it's clear to me that we need a better vision for how we create value for employees — a vision for their success," said Bezos, who will step down as CEO in the third quarter, turning the helm over to Andy Jassy, CEO of Amazon Web Services. Bezos will become executive chairman of Amazon's board.In a statement, Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, which led the campaign in Alabama, said the union election ignited a conversation about how Amazon treats its employees. "Bezos's admission today demonstrates that what we have been saying about workplace conditions is correct," Appelbaum said. "But his admission won't change anything, workers need a union – not just another Amazon public relations effort in damage control."Amazon has famously held a core set of leadership principles, chief among them being that the company is "customer obsessed." In the future, Bezos said, he wants Amazon to do the same for its employees."Despite what we've accomplished, it's clear to me that we need a better vision for our employees' success," Bezos said. "We have always wanted to be Earth's Most Customer-Centric Company. We won't change that. It's what got us here. But I am committing us to an addition. We are going to be Earth's Best Employer and Earth's Safest Place to Work."Bezos also rejected claims that Amazon has cultivated a brutal workplace culture in its warehouses. "Our employees are sometimes accused of being desperate souls and treated as robots. That's not accurate," he said. In his new role as executive chairman, Bezos said he plans to focus on how to make Amazon's warehouses safer. Roughly 40% of work-related injuries are sprains or strains mostly due to repeating the same motions and are common among new employees, he said.To help reduce these types of injuries, Amazon is developing automated staffing schedules that rotate employees through different jobs that use other muscle-tendon groups. The company expects to begin deploying the technology later this year.Bezos also took steps to ease shareholders' fears about what a reimagined focus for the company might mean for Amazon's future. He reiterated that it "remains Day 1" and highlighted continued growth at Amazon, including that the company now counts 200 million Prime subscribers, up from 150 million at the beginning of last year."If any shareowners are concerned that Earth's Best Employer and Earth's Safest Place to Work might dilute our focus on Earth's Most Customer-Centric Company, let me set your mind at ease," Bezos said. "Think of it this way. If we can operate two businesses as different as consumer ecommerce and AWS, and do both at the highest level, we can certainly do the same with these two vision statements. In fact, I'm confident they will reinforce each other."You can read the full letter below:In Amazon's 1997 letter to shareholders, our first, I talked about our hope to create an "enduring franchise," one that would reinvent what it means to serve customers by unlocking the internet's power. I noted that Amazon had grown from having 158 employees to 614, and that we had surpassed 1.5 million customer accounts. We had just gone public at a split-adjusted stock price of $1.50 per share. I wrote that it was Day 1.We've come a long way since then, and we are working harder than ever to serve and delight customers. Last year, we hired 500,000 employees and now directly employ 1.3 million people around the world. We have more than 200 million Prime members worldwide. More than 1.9 million small and medium-sized businesses sell in our store, and they make up close to 60% of our retail sales. Customers have connected more than 100 million smart home devices to Alexa. Amazon Web Services serves millions of customers and ended 2020 with a $50 billion annualized run rate. In 1997, we hadn't invented Prime, Marketplace, Alexa, or AWS. They weren't even ideas then, and none was preordained. We took great risk with each one and put sweat and ingenuity into each one.Along the way, we've created $1.6 trillion of wealth for shareowners. Who are they? Your Chair is one, and my Amazon shares have made me wealthy. But more than 7/8ths of the shares, representing $1.4 trillion of wealth creation, are owned by others. Who are they? They're pension funds, universities, and 401(k)s, and they're Mary and Larry, who sent me this note out of the blue just as I was sitting down to write this shareholder letter:[Screenshot of letter from shareholders, part 1][Screenshot of letter from shareholders, part 2]I am approached with similar stories all the time. I know people who've used their Amazon money for college, for emergencies, for houses, for vacations, to start their own business, for charity – and the list goes on. I'm proud of the wealth we've created for shareowners. It's significant, and it improves their lives. But I also know something else: it's not the largest part of the value we've created.Create More Than You ConsumeIf you want to be successful in business (in life, actually), you have to create more than you consume. Your goal should be to create value for everyone you interact with. Any business that doesn't create value for those it touches, even if it appears successful on the surface, isn't long for this world. It's on the way out.Remember that stock prices are not about the past. They are a prediction of future cash flows discounted back to the present. The stock market anticipates. I'm going to switch gears for a moment and talk about the past. How much value did we create for shareowners in 2020? This is a relatively easy question to answer because accounting systems are set up to answer it. Our net income in 2020 was $21.3 billion. If, instead of being a publicly traded company with thousands of owners, Amazon were a sole proprietorship with a single owner, that's how much the owner would have earned in 2020.How about employees? This is also a reasonably easy value creation question to answer because we can look at compensation expense. What is an expense for a company is income for employees. In 2020, employees earned $80 billion, plus another $11 billion to include benefits and various payroll taxes, for a total of $91 billion.How about third-party sellers? We have an internal team (the Selling Partner Services team) that works to answer that question. They estimate that, in 2020, third-party seller profits from selling on Amazon were between $25 billion and $39 billion, and to be conservative here I'll go with $25 billion.For customers, we have to break it down into consumer customers and AWS customers.We'll do consumers first. We offer low prices, vast selection, and fast delivery, but imagine we ignore all of that for the purpose of this estimate and value only one thing: we save customers time.Customers complete 28% of purchases on Amazon in three minutes or less, and half of all purchases are finished in less than 15 minutes. Compare that to the typical shopping trip to a physical store – driving, parking, searching store aisles, waiting in the checkout line, finding your car, and driving home. Research suggests the typical physical store trip takes about an hour. If you assume that a typical Amazon purchase takes 15 minutes and that it saves you a couple of trips to a physical store a week, that's more than 75 hours a year saved. That's important. We're all busy in the early 21st century.So that we can get a dollar figure, let's value the time savings at $10 per hour, which is conservative. Seventy-five hours multiplied by $10 an hour and subtracting the cost of Prime gives you value creation for each Prime member of about $630. We have 200 million Prime members, for a total in 2020 of $126 billion of value creation.AWS is challenging to estimate because each customer's workload is so different, but we'll do it anyway, acknowledging up front that the error bars are high. Direct cost improvements from operating in the cloud versus on premises vary, but a reasonable estimate is 30%. Across AWS's entire 2020 revenue of $45 billion, that 30% would imply customer value creation of $19 billion (what would have cost them $64 billion on their own cost $45 billion from AWS). The difficult part of this estimation exercise is that the direct cost reduction is the smallest portion of the customer benefit of moving to the cloud. The bigger benefit is the increased speed of software development – something that can significantly improve the customer's competitiveness and top line. We have no reasonable way of estimating that portion of customer value except to say that it's almost certainly larger than the direct cost savings. To be conservative here (and remembering we're really only trying to get ballpark estimates), I'll say it's the same and call AWS customer value creation $38 billion in 2020.Adding AWS and consumer together gives us total customer value creation in 2020 of $164 billion.Summarizing:Shareholders      $21BEmployees          $91B3P Sellers            $25BCustomers           $164BTotal                    $301BIf each group had an income statement representing their interactions with Amazon, the numbers above would be the "bottom lines" from those income statements. These numbers are part of the reason why people work for us, why sellers sell through us, and why customers buy from us. We create value for them. And this value creation is not a zero-sum game. It is not just moving money from one pocket to another. Draw the box big around all of society, and you'll find that invention is the root of all real value creation. And value created is best thought of as a metric for innovation.Of course, our relationship with these constituencies and the value we create isn't exclusively dollars and cents. Money doesn't tell the whole story. Our relationship with shareholders, for example, is relatively simple. They invest and hold shares for a duration of their choosing. We provide direction to shareowners infrequently on matters such as annual meetings and the right process to vote their shares. And even then they can ignore those directions and just skip voting.Our relationship with employees is a very different example. We have processes they follow and standards they meet. We require training and various certifications. Employees have to show up at appointed times. Our interactions with employees are many, and they're fine-grained. It's not just about the pay and the benefits. It's about all the other detailed aspects of the relationship too.Does your Chair take comfort in the outcome of the recent union vote in Bessemer? No, he doesn't. I think we need to do a better job for our employees. While the voting results were lopsided and our direct relationship with employees is strong, it's clear to me that we need a better vision for how we create value for employees – a vision for their success.If you read some of the news reports, you might think we have no care for employees. In those reports, our employees are sometimes accused of being desperate souls and treated as robots. That's not accurate. They're sophisticated and thoughtful people who have options for where to work. When we survey fulfillment center employees, 94% say they would recommend Amazon to a friend as a place to work.Employees are able to take informal breaks throughout their shifts to stretch, get water, use the rest room, or talk to a manager, all without impacting their performance. These informal work breaks are in addition to the 30-minute lunch and 30-minute break built into their normal schedule.We don't set unreasonable performance goals. We set achievable performance goals that take into account tenure and actual employee performance data. Performance is evaluated over a long period of time as we know that a variety of things can impact performance in any given week, day, or hour. If employees are on track to miss a performance target over a period of time, their manager talks with them and provides coaching.Coaching is also extended to employees who are excelling and in line for increased responsibilities. In fact, 82% of coaching is positive, provided to employees who are meeting or exceeding expectations. We terminate the employment of less than 2.6% of employees due to their inability to perform their jobs (and that number was even lower in 2020 because of operational impacts of COVID-19).Earth's Best Employer and Earth's Safest Place to WorkThe fact is, the large team of thousands of people who lead operations at Amazon have always cared deeply for our hourly employees, and we're proud of the work environment we've created. We're also proud of the fact that Amazon is a company that does more than just create jobs for computer scientists and people with advanced degrees. We create jobs for people who never got that advantage.Despite what we've accomplished, it's clear to me that we need a better vision for our employees' success. We have always wanted to be Earth's Most Customer-Centric Company. We won't change that. It's what got us here. But I am committing us to an addition. We are going to be Earth's Best Employer and Earth's Safest Place to Work.In my upcoming role as Executive Chair, I'm going to focus on new initiatives. I'm an inventor. It's what I enjoy the most and what I do best. It's where I create the most value. I'm excited to work alongside the large team of passionate people we have in Ops and help invent in this arena of Earth's Best Employer and Earth's Safest Place to Work. On the details, we at Amazon are always flexible, but on matters of vision we are stubborn and relentless. We have never failed when we set our minds to something, and we're not going to fail at this either.We dive deep into safety issues. For example, about 40% of work-related injuries at Amazon are related to musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs), things like sprains or strains that can be caused by repetitive motions. MSDs are common in the type of work that we do and are more likely to occur during an employee's first six months. We need to invent solutions to reduce MSDs for new employees, many of whom might be working in a physical role for the first time.One such program is WorkingWell – which we launched to 859,000 employees at 350 sites across North America and Europe in 2020 – where we coach small groups of employees on body mechanics, proactive wellness, and safety. In addition to reducing workplace injuries, these concepts have a positive impact on regular day-to-day activities outside work.We're developing new automated staffing schedules that use sophisticated algorithms to rotate employees among jobs that use different muscle-tendon groups to decrease repetitive motion and help protect employees from MSD risks. This new technology is central to a job rotation program that we're rolling out throughout 2021.Our increased attention to early MSD prevention is already achieving results. From 2019 to 2020, overall MSDs decreased by 32%, and MSDs resulting in time away from work decreased by more than half.We employ 6,200 safety professionals at Amazon. They use the science of safety to solve complex problems and establish new industry best practices. In 2021, we'll invest more than $300 million into safety projects, including an initial $66 million to create technology that will help prevent collisions of forklifts and other types of industrial vehicles.When we lead, others follow. Two and a half years ago, when we set a $15 minimum wage for our hourly employees, we did so because we wanted to lead on wages – not just run with the pack – and because we believed it was the right thing to do. A recent paper by economists at the University of California-Berkeley and Brandeis University analyzed the impact of our decision to raise our minimum starting pay to $15 per hour. Their assessment reflects what we've heard from employees, their families, and the communities they live in.Our increase in starting wage boosted local economies across the country by benefiting not only our own employees but also other workers in the same community. The study showed that our pay raise resulted in a 4.7% increase in the average hourly wage among other employers in the same labor market.And we're not done leading. If we want to be Earth's Best Employer, we shouldn't settle for 94% of employees saying they would recommend Amazon to a friend as a place to work. We have to aim for 100%. And we'll do that by continuing to lead on wages, on benefits, on upskilling opportunities, and in other ways that we will figure out over time.If any shareowners are concerned that Earth's Best Employer and Earth's Safest Place to Work might dilute our focus on Earth's Most Customer-Centric Company, let me set your mind at ease. Think of it this way. If we can operate two businesses as different as consumer ecommerce and AWS, and do both at the highest level, we can certainly do the same with these two vision statements. In fact, I'm confident they will reinforce each other.The Climate PledgeIn an earlier draft of this letter, I started this section with arguments and examples designed to demonstrate that human-induced climate change is real. But, bluntly, I think we can stop saying that now. You don't have to say that photosynthesis is real, or make the case that gravity is real, or that water boils at 100 degrees Celsius at sea level. These things are simply true, as is the reality of climate change.Not long ago, most people believed that it would be good to address climate change, but they also thought it would cost a lot and would threaten jobs, competitiveness, and economic growth. We now know better. Smart action on climate change will not only stop bad things from happening, it will also make our economy more efficient, help drive technological change, and reduce risks. Combined, these can lead to more and better jobs, healthier and happier children, more productive workers, and a more prosperous future. This doesn't mean it will be easy. It won't be. The coming decade will be decisive. The economy in 2030 will need to be vastly different from what it is today, and Amazon plans to be at the heart of the change. We launched The Climate Pledge together with Global Optimism in September 2019 because we wanted to help drive this positive revolution. We need to be part of a growing team of corporations that understand the imperatives and the opportunities of the 21st century.Now, less than two years later, 53 companies representing almost every sector of the economy have signed The Climate Pledge. Signatories such as Best Buy, IBM, Infosys, Mercedes-Benz, Microsoft, Siemens, and Verizon have committed to achieve net-zero carbon in their worldwide businesses by 2040, 10 years ahead of the Paris Agreement. The Pledge also requires them to measure and report greenhouse gas emissions on a regular basis; implement decarbonization strategies through real business changes and innovations; and neutralize any remaining emissions with additional, quantifiable, real, permanent, and socially beneficial offsets. Credible, quality offsets are precious, and we should reserve them to compensate for economic activities where low-carbon alternatives don't exist.The Climate Pledge signatories are making meaningful, tangible, and ambitious commitments. Uber has a goal of operating as a zero-emission platform in Canada, Europe, and the U.S. by 2030, and Henkel plans to source 100% of the electricity it uses for production from renewable sources. Amazon is making progress toward our own goal of 100% renewable energy by 2025, five years ahead of our initial 2030 target. Amazon is the largest corporate buyer of renewable energy in the world. We have 62 utility-scale wind and solar projects and 125 solar rooftops on fulfillment and sort centers around the globe. These projects have the capacity to generate over 6.9 gigawatts and deliver more than 20 million megawatt-hours of energy annually.Transportation is a major component of Amazon's business operations and the toughest part of our plan to meet net-zero carbon by 2040. To help rapidly accelerate the market for electric vehicle technology, and to help all companies transition to greener technologies, we invested more than $1 billion in Rivian – and ordered 100,000 electric delivery vans from the company. We've also partnered with Mahindra in India and Mercedes-Benz in Europe. These custom electric delivery vehicles from Rivian are already operational, and they first hit the road in Los Angeles this past February. Ten thousand new vehicles will be on the road as early as next year, and all 100,000 vehicles will be on the road by 2030 – saving millions of metric tons of carbon. A big reason we want companies to join The Climate Pledge is to signal to the marketplace that businesses should start inventing and developing new technologies that signatories need to make good on the Pledge. Our purchase of 100,000 Rivian electric vans is a perfect example.To further accelerate investment in new technologies needed to build a zero-carbon economy, we introduced the Climate Pledge Fund last June. The investment program started with $2 billion to invest in visionary companies that aim to facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy. Amazon has already announced investments in CarbonCure Technologies, Pachama, Redwood Materials, Rivian, Turntide Technologies, ZeroAvia, and Infinium – and these are just some of the innovative companies we hope will build the zero-carbon economy of the future.I have also personally allocated $10 billion to provide grants to help catalyze the systemic change we will need in the coming decade. We'll be supporting leading scientists, activists, NGOs, environmental justice organizations, and others working to fight climate change and protect the natural world. Late last year, I made my first round of grants to 16 organizations working on innovative and needle-moving solutions. It's going to take collective action from big companies, small companies, nation states, global organizations, and individuals, and I'm excited to be part of this journey and optimistic that humanity can come together to solve this challenge.Differentiation is Survival and the Universe Wants You to be TypicalThis is my last annual shareholder letter as the CEO of Amazon, and I have one last thing of utmost importance I feel compelled to teach. I hope all Amazonians take it to heart.Here is a passage from Richard Dawkins' (extraordinary) book The Blind Watchmaker. It's about a basic fact of biology."Staving off death is a thing that you have to work at. Left to itself – and that is what it is when it dies – the body tends to revert to a state of equilibrium with its environment. If you measure some quantity such as the temperature, the acidity, the water content or the electrical potential in a living body, you will typically find that it is markedly different from the corresponding measure in the surroundings. Our bodies, for instance, are usually hotter than our surroundings, and in cold climates they have to work hard to maintain the differential. When we die the work stops, the temperature differential starts to disappear, and we end up the same temperature as our surroundings. Not all animals work so hard to avoid coming into equilibrium with their surrounding temperature, but all animals do some comparable work. For instance, in a dry country, animals and plants work to maintain the fluid content of their cells, work against a natural tendency for water to flow from them into the dry outside world. If they fail they die. More generally, if living things didn't work actively to prevent it, they would eventually merge into their surroundings, and cease to exist as autonomous beings. That is what happens when they die."While the passage is not intended as a metaphor, it's nevertheless a fantastic one, and very relevant to Amazon. I would argue that it's relevant to all companies and all institutions and to each of our individual lives too. In what ways does the world pull at you in an attempt to make you normal? How much work does it take to maintain your distinctiveness? To keep alive the thing or things that make you special?I know a happily married couple who have a running joke in their relationship. Not infrequently, the husband looks at the wife with faux distress and says to her, "Can't you just be normal?" They both smile and laugh, and of course the deep truth is that her distinctiveness is something he loves about her. But, at the same time, it's also true that things would often be easier – take less energy – if we were a little more normal.This phenomenon happens at all scale levels. Democracies are not normal. Tyranny is the historical norm. If we stopped doing all of the continuous hard work that is needed to maintain our distinctiveness in that regard, we would quickly come into equilibrium with tyranny.We all know that distinctiveness – originality – is valuable. We are all taught to "be yourself." What I'm really asking you to do is to embrace and be realistic about how much energy it takes to maintain that distinctiveness. The world wants you to be typical – in a thousand ways, it pulls at you. Don't let it happen.You have to pay a price for your distinctiveness, and it's worth it. The fairy tale version of "be yourself" is that all the pain stops as soon as you allow your distinctiveness to shine. That version is misleading. Being yourself is worth it, but don't expect it to be easy or free. You'll have to put energy into it continuously.The world will always try to make Amazon more typical – to bring us into equilibrium with our environment. It will take continuous effort, but we can and must be better than that.* * *As always, I attach our 1997 shareholder letter. It concluded with this: "We at Amazon.com are grateful to our customers for their business and trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our shareholders for their support and encouragement." That hasn't changed a bit. I want to especially thank Andy Jassy for agreeing to take on the CEO role. It's a hard job with a lot of responsibility. Andy is brilliant and has the highest of high standards. I guarantee you that Andy won't let the universe make us typical. He will muster the energy needed to keep alive in us what makes us special. That won't be easy, but it is critical. I also predict it will be satisfying and oftentimes fun. Thank you, Andy.To all of you: be kind, be original, create more than you consume, and never, never, never let the universe smooth you into your surroundings. It remains Day 1.Sincerely,To our shareowners:Jeffrey P. BezosFounder and Chief Executive OfficerAmazon.com, Inc.

2021/04/22, People walk in front of a Microsoft store on March 10, 2021, in New York.John Smith | VIEW press | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2021/04/21, Monitors display Coinbase signage during the company's initial public offering (IPO) at the Nasdaq market site April 14, 2021 in New York City.Robert Nickelsberg | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2021/04/23, An American Airlines Airbus A321-200 plane takes off from Los Angeles International airport (LAX) in Los Angeles, California.Mike Blake | ReutersHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Friday:

2021/04/16, In this articleAMZNStill from "Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring."New Line CinemaAmazon's "Lord of the Rings" television show is shaping up to be a costly endeavor for the tech company.On Friday, New Zealand's minister for economic development and tourism revealed that the fantasy drama will be one of the most costly television series ever made, with its season one price tag coming in at around $465 million."But what I can tell you is Amazon is going to spend about $650 million in season one alone," Stuart Nash told Morning Report. The figure he provided was in local currency.The production figure is massive and likely the largest sum any studio has spent to produce a single season of television. For comparison, HBO's "Game of Thrones" cost around $100 million per season. Season one episodes cost around $6 million each and eventually rose to around $15 million by season eight.Amazon shelled out around $250 million for the rights to the Tolkien property in 2017."This will be the largest television series ever made," Nash said.The figures, released as part of the New Zealand government's Official Information Act, were first reported by the New Zealand-based outlet Stuff. Its report indicated that Amazon is looking to film five seasons in the country and possibly produce a spinoff series.Amazon's spending in New Zealand will trigger a tax rebate of around $114 million and has been flagged as a "significant financial risk" by the country's treasury. There's no cap on how much Amazon is allowed to spend, and therefore, New Zealand could be on the hook for hundreds of millions of dollars to help subsidize the project.However, the production will likely bring a large financial boost to the local economy, as Amazon pays for local labor, hotels and food, among other things. Then there is the future tourism bump. Peter Jackson's "Lord of the Rings" and "Hobbit" film trilogies were a big boon to New Zealand, as they brought in travelers from around the world.The "Lord of the Rings" series is currently in production and expected to debut in late 2021.

2021/04/19, Clean EnergySource: Clean EnergyShares of Clean Energy Fuels jumped as much as 26% on Monday after the renewable natural gas company announced a partnership with Amazon.

2021/04/14, In this articleAMZNThe Amazon headquarters sits virtually empty on March 10, 2020 in downtown Seattle, Washington. In response to the coronavirus outbreak, Amazon recommended all employees in its Seattle office to work from home, leaving much of downtown nearly void of people.John Moore | Getty ImagesAmazon said Wednesday it will examine how it conducts employee performance reviews, a process that has faced allegations of racial bias, as part of its 2021 diversity, equity and inclusion goals.In a memo sent to employees and posted on the company's web site, Amazon's HR boss, Beth Galetti, said the company would look for any "statistically significant demographic differences" in performance ratings conducted in the first quarter of this year to identify any problems and take action where necessary. Amazon will also perform a similar evaluation of its attrition rates and "low performance actions" to identify any gaps.Along those lines, Galetti said Amazon hopes to retain employees at statistically similar rates across all demographics as part of its goals for this year.The decision comes as Amazon faces growing scrutiny over its hiring and promotion practices. Recode reported in February that Black Amazon employees are promoted less often and endure harsher evaluations than their non-Black colleagues, citing interviews and internal data.Additionally, in March, an Amazon Web Services senior manager sued Amazon for allegedly discriminating against Black and female employees at its corporate offices. Charlotte Newman also claimed Amazon paid her less than similarly qualified White coworkers. Newman said she endured racial and sexual harassment by her coworkers and supervisors, including being told that she looked "like a gorilla," according to the complaint.An Amazon spokesperson said the company investigated the claims and fired Newman's harasser. Amazon also issued additional training requirements for those in Newman's reporting line, the spokesperson said."We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind," the spokesperson said. "We are currently investigating the new allegations included in the lawsuit."Galetti said Amazon would work to further diversify its leadership this year. The company aims to double the number of Black employees in leadership roles and hire 30% more Black people and female employees in "L4-L7" roles, which range from entry level to senior manager positions, in the U.S. this year."It is going to take time and consistent focus to get where we want to be," Galetti said, adding that members of CEO Jeff Bezos' S-Team, a group of over a dozen senior executives from all areas of Amazon's business, have been meeting biweekly since June of last year to "scrutinize our progress toward reaching these goals."Galetti said Amazon achieved several diversity goals established in 2020, including doubling the representation of Black directors and vice presidents at the company.Last year, women made up 22.8% of Amazon's senior leadership in the U.S., while Black employees represented just 3.8% of its U.S. senior leadership, according to Amazon's latest workforce data.VIDEO3:4403:44Hundreds of companies speak out against discriminatory voting lawsSquawk Box

2021/04/20, thredUP Co-Founder & CEO James Reinhart speaks onstage during TechCrunch Disrupt San Francisco 2019 at Moscone Convention Center on October 02, 2019 in San Francisco, California.Kimberly White | Getty Images Entertainment | Getty ImagesThe booming resale fashion market has a clear leader in ThredUp, Barclays said Tuesday.The firm initiated coverage of the stock with an overweight rating, comparing the company's business model and market-position to the early days of Amazon."TDUP is a leading mass-market player in the rapidly growing apparel and accessories resale e-commerce space," the note said. "Its business model built around proprietary logistics infrastructure and razor-thin contribution profit per item reminds us of Amazon in the early days, when heavy upfront investments assured high customer service levels and retention."

2021/04/15, Amazon's Sound of Metal, starring Riz Ahmed.Source: AmazonAmazon spent $11 billion on content for its streaming video and music services last year, the company disclosed Thursday in its annual report, the latest sign of the company's willingness to invest heavily in entertaining Prime members.The $11 billion in content spend in 2020 is a sharp uptick from a year earlier, when Amazon spent $7.8 billion, according to the report. Amazon defines video and music expenses as any licensing and production costs, as well as costs associated with digital subscriptions and sold or rented content.Amazon has sought to attract consumers' attention in a sea of rival video and music streaming offerings from Netflix, Disney, Apple, Spotify and many others. Over the past several years, it has built up a robust library of original and licensed videos, music and podcasts, including through its acquisition of podcasting start-up Wondery in December.It quickly ramped up spending on video and music content in 2020 as consumers spent more time indoors looking at screens amid the coronavirus pandemic. Amazon has also pursued more costly film projects as its profile in Hollywood has risen.The company has long been willing to make big investments on video and music content as a strategy to buoy Prime memberships. On Thursday, CEO Jeff Bezos announced in his annual shareholders letter that Amazon now has 200 million Prime subscribers, up from 150 million at the beginning of 2020. Amazon folds its music and video offerings into the Prime subscription plan, which costs $119 a year and includes other perks like free, two-day shipping.VIDEO4:1404:14Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos releases final letter to shareholdersSquawk on the Street

2021/04/14, In this articleAAPLAMZNAmazon's second-generation Echo BudsAmazonAmazon on Wednesday announced the second version of its Echo Buds headphones that are smaller and start at $99 while promising some of the features found in Apple's $249 AirPods Pro.The earbuds are Amazon's latest effort to lure people who don't want Apple and to attract those who want to use Echo products and bring Amazon's Alexa voice assistant in their ears everywhere they go within Bluetooth range.The new Echo Buds have active noise cancellation, like the AirPods Pro. Amazon says they block twice as much background noise as the first model. The feature makes for better listening in places like airplane cabins or crowded streets.Amazon seems to have addressed a lot of the complaints I had with the first version of Echo Buds. They're 20% smaller than the first generation and are supposed to be more comfortable thanks to a redesign and a variety of rubber tips that come with the headphones.Amazon's second-generation Echo BudsAmazonThey also come with a carrying case that's 40% more compact than the older model. And, finally, the case uses a more modern USB-C charger that you might already have for your laptop, tablet or phone. You can also opt for an upgraded case that supports wireless charging, a feature also offered by Apple, for $20 more.Amazon's second-generation Echo BudsAmazonAmazon said each bud has three microphones to help improve audio quality in noisy environments. They'll also help Alexa hear you better and improve your voice clarity in phone calls. It improved the bass and treble, too.There are a couple of new software features. Amazon is introducing a feature to help you find your lost earbuds by just saying "Alexa, find my buds," for example, which is similar to Apple's Find My software. Alexa will also offer public transit directions in seven cities — New York, Seattle, San Francisco, Chicago, Boston, Jersey City and Philadelphia. Support for other cities will launch in coming months, Amazon said.Amazon's second-generation Echo BudsAmazonAmazon says the second-generation Echo Buds will offer five hours of music playback with noise cancellation on (or 6.5 hours if it's off) and up to four hours of call time. The case offers up to 15 additional hours (or 19.5 hours with active noise canceling off.)The Echo Buds will launch on May 13 in white and black. They'll start at $99 for the regular model or $119.99 for a version with the wireless charging case. After a promotional period that ends May 12, they'll cost $119.99 and $139.99, respectively.VIDEO2:2702:27Amazon and Google are becoming omnipresent whether you like it or notTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/04/09, VIDEO3:2503:25Amazon secures enough votes to defeat the unionization drive at an Alabama warehouseNews VideosAmazon on Friday secured enough votes to defeat the unionization drive at one of its Alabama warehouses, delivering a blow to organized labor who hoped to unionize a U.S. Amazon facility for the first time.Of the 3,215 ballots cast, there were 1,798 votes opposing the union and 738 in favor. Approximately 5,800 workers at the Bessemer warehouse were eligible to vote on whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. In order to defeat the union, Amazon needed to garner 1,608 votes, or a little more than 50% of the ballots cast. The margin of victory is larger than the approximately 500 challenged ballots, which would have only been tallied if they would've swayed the outcome of the election. The election result still needs to be formally certified by the Nationa Labor Relations Board.The RWDSU said it plans to challenge the election results. The union said it intends to file objections over Amazon's election conduct with the NLRB, as well as a number of unfair labor practice charges, alleging that "Amazon interfered with the rights of its Bessemer, Alabama employees to vote in a free and fair election."The unionization effort in Alabama transformed into a protracted labor battle at Amazon, with the company hiring the same law firm it used to assist with negotiations during a failed union drive in Delaware in 2014. Amazon also made its position on the union campaign clear to workers at the Bessemer facility, by holding mandatory meetings, setting up a website urging workers to "do it without dues" and distributing pamphlets instructing workers to "Vote NO" on the historic election.The union specifically called out a mailbox that was installed in front of the Bessemer facility, including claims that it was placed there by the U.S. Postal Service at the direction of Amazon. The company said the mailbox was intended to make it more convenient for workers to vote, adding that only the the Postal Service had access to the mailbox.The RWDSU's objections are likely to kick off a protracted legal fight surrounding whether Amazon engaged in anti-union conduct that prevented the possibility of a fair election. The RWDSU said it's prepared to submit evidence to the NLRB in support of complaints that Amazon violated labor laws.In a statement, RWDSU President Stuart Appelbaum said Amazon "left no stone unturned in its efforts to gaslight its own employees.""We won't let Amazon's lies, deception and illegal activities go unchallenged, which is why we are formally filing charges against all of the egregious and blatantly illegal actions taken by Amazon during the union vote," Appelbaum said. "We demand a comprehensive investigation over Amazon's behavior in corrupting this election."Amazon said in a statement that "the union will say that Amazon won this election because we intimidated employees, but that's not true.""Our employees heard far more anti-Amazon messages from the union, policymakers, and media outlets than they heard from us," the company said. "And Amazon didn't win — our employees made the choice to vote against joining a union."Both the RWDSU and Amazon held news conferences following the result, with employees from the Bessemer warehouse, known as BHM1, in attendance. At the press conference hosted by Amazon, BHM1 warehouse worker Will Stokes said he and others will work with employees who voted for the union to address their grievances."We actually have a seat at the table now," Stokes said. "We're talking with senior management and over the next 100 days we have things that we want to change. Change will come from this."The vote caps off months of intense campaigning by both Amazon and the RWDSU. In November, workers at the Bessemer facility filed notice to hold a union election. RWDSU organizers were stationed outside the Bessemer facility daily, hoping to catch Amazon employees on their way out of work.Over the ensuing months, support for the campaign mushroomed. The union received a critical endorsement from President Joe Biden, who, without naming Amazon, discouraged any employer interference in the election.The White House declined to comment on the election outcome until the NLRB certifies the results.Amazon has long been a target of major labor unions, with the Teamsters, the United Food & Commercial Workers Union and the RWDSU quietly meeting with warehouse and delivery workers. The coronavirus pandemic, the explosion of Black Lives Matter protests last summer and rising concerns around workplace safety fueled further interest in organizing Amazon warehouses.In a statement, Randy Korgan, director of Amazon for the Teamsters, commended the RWDSU's efforts to organize Amazon workers in Alabama."Despite going up against one of the world's richest men in a country with weak labor laws, the workers in Bessemer brought national attention to issues that many non-union workers face in this industry," Korgan said. "This fight is not over."VIDEO1:2501:25Ballot counting begins in historic Amazon union vote in AlabamaThe News with Shepard Smith

2021/04/15, In this articleGOOGLFBAMZNUS President Joe Biden holds his first cabinet meeting in the East Room of the White House in Washington, DC, on April 1, 2021.Andrew Caballero-Reynolds | AFP | Getty ImagesChamber of Progress, a new tech industry group funded by giants like Amazon, Facebook and Google, is announcing its support for a corporate tax increase like the one President Joe Biden proposed to fund his $2 trillion infrastructure plan.The move sets Chamber of Progress, a new center-left group, apart from other business organizations that have opposed Biden's tax hike, like the Business Roundtable and U.S. Chamber of Commerce. While the group's endorsement does not reflect the individual views of each company that funds it, it does send a signal that the tech industry is open to higher tax rates and supports greater infrastructure investment.Chamber of Progress launched late last month and is an industry coalition focused on a range of economic, social and consumer issues, including creating a social safety net and tackling income inequality.Biden proposed raising the corporate tax rate from 21% to 28% to help fund his American Jobs Plan, which includes infrastructure proposals that span the entire economy. The plan includes money to expand broadband availability, which is key to the success of internet businesses, and other priorities the tech industry has emphasized, like clean energy."The plan speaks to a lot of goals that I think many people in the tech industry have wanted to see for a long time," Adam Kovacevich, founder and CEO of Chamber of Progress, said in an interview with CNBC on Wednesday.Kovacevich said his group's openness to a higher tax rate isn't a decision based on bottom line calculations."Certainly all business benefits when there's better infrastructure," he said. "But I really don't think people in the tech industry view it that way. I don't think they're thinking, 'this is great for the bottom line.' Most people in tech think these kind of investments are good for American society and for America's technological leadership in the world, too."Kovacevich said it's possible for the tech industry to take this position because, in his 15 years of experience working for tech companies including Google and Lime, he's noticed that investment decisions don't tend to hinge on the corporate tax rate, but rather on what expansion opportunities are available to pursue."From my experience in the tech industry, this is a deal that most tech companies can live with," he said of the tax hike.Automattic, Doordash, Getaround, Grubhub, Instacart, Lime, Twitter, Uber, Waymo, Wing and Zillow are also partners that support Chamber of Progress. The group says partners don't sit on its board of directors or vote on its policies.Chamber of Progress didn't identify a specific rate at which it believes corporate taxes should be set, and Biden has indicated openness to negotiating the specifics of his infrastructure plan. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos announced his support for a tax increase, though he did not endorse the 28% rate outright.Biden previously singled out Amazon for its historically low federal income tax payments, which the company has attributed to tax credits including for research and development. Amazon paid $162 million in federal income taxes in 2019 after two years of paying $0. It reported total revenue last year of $386 billion.Chamber of Progress' decision to support a domestic tax hike comes as the tech industry faces the threat of higher taxation from abroad. In a blog post previewed by CNBC, Kovacevich references efforts in Europe to impose a digital services tax that would impact large U.S. technology companies, calling such proposals "discriminatory." He lauded the Biden administration for pushing back on the moves, writing that the U.S. has a "national interest" in a fair global tax system."U.S. companies also need to be able to compete fairly against foreign competitors, and that's why Congress should focus on how to fairly tax U.S. companies' foreign revenue," Kovacevich wrote. "Our tax system should also continue encouraging companies to invest in research and development. And Congress should take a close look at how the current cap on state and local tax deductions might threaten the ability of tech companies to attract talent."Kovacevich wrote that he respects businesses that worry the tax increase will have a negative impact, but said serious action needs to take place to upgrade U.S. infrastructure."President Biden's proposal to raise corporate tax rates to make major investments in infrastructure is a tradeoff that many in the tech industry can support," he wrote.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: How Amazon paid $0 federal income tax in 2018VIDEO12:1212:12How Amazon paid $0 federal income tax in 2018Markets and Politics Digital Original Video

2021/04/08, An RWDSU union rep holds a sign outside the Amazon fulfillment warehouse at the center of a unionization drive on March 29, 2021 in Bessemer, Alabama.Elijah Nouvelage | Getty ImagesUpdate: The National Labor Relations Board resumed counting ballots at 9:30 a.m. ET on Friday. You can follow along here. With about half the ballots counted Thursday evening, Amazon held a commanding lead in the historic union election at one of its Alabama warehouses.Out of the 3,215 ballots cast, there were 1,100 votes against unionization and 463 votes in support. The preliminary results put Amazon ahead by more than a 2-1 margin.Counting will resume on Friday, when the National Labor Relations Board will have more than a thousand ballots left to count. There are also hundreds of contested ballots, most of which were challenged by Amazon.Approximately 5,800 workers at the Bessemer warehouse, known as BHM1, were eligible to cast ballots to decide whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. Roughly 55% of the eligible workers cast ballots in the election.The first day of counting ended on a downcast note for the union, with RWDSU President Stuart Appelbaum calling for the NLRB to probe Amazon's conduct during the election, such as claims that it improperly pushed the U.S. Postal Service to install a mailbox at the Bessemer facility."Our system is broken, Amazon took full advantage of that, and we will be calling on the labor board to hold Amazon accountable for its illegal and egregious behavior during the campaign," Appelbaum said. "But make no mistake about it; this still represents and important moment for working people and their voices will be heard."In a statement, Amazon spokesperson Rachael Lighty said the mailbox was installed to make voting easy."The RWDSU fought those at every turn and pushed for a mail-only election, which the NLRB's own data showed would reduce turnout," Lighty said. "This mailbox — which only the USPS had access to — was a simple, secure, and completely optional way to make it easy for employees to vote, no more and no less."Even after the votes are counted, the election may be far from over. Further legal challenges could be in store, as either side can file objections to the NLRB over conduct during the election or appeal the ruling to the NLRB board in Washington. Those processes typically involve hearings in front of the NLRB, which would likely draw out the election by many months.The vote caps off months of intense campaigning by both Amazon and the RWDSU. In November, workers at the Bessemer facility filed notice to hold a union election. Amazon initially sought to delay the vote and has steadfastly opposed the union via a website, widely distributed flyers and text messages to employees, as well as mandatory meetings, in which it encouraged employees to "vote NO."RWDSU organizers were stationed outside the Bessemer facility daily, hoping to catch workers at the end of their shifts to pledge support for the union. By mid-January, more than 3,000 workers at the facility signed cards authorizing the RWDSU to represent them, although some have since left Amazon. Support for the campaign rolled in from out of state, including a critical endorsement from President Joe Biden, who, without naming Amazon, discouraged any employer interference in the election.For many years, major unions including the Teamsters, the United Food & Commercial Workers Union and the RWDSU have quietly been talking to Amazon workers about organizing. They've long faced steep challenges organizing Amazon workers in the U.S., where none of the company's warehouses are unionized, while unions are common among Amazon's workforce in Europe.The last substantial union vote at a U.S. Amazon facility took place at a Delaware warehouse in 2014, when a group of repair technicians voted 21 to 6 against joining the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.Amazon's public profile has grown since then. The company is now the nation's second-largest employer, with 1.2 million employees worldwide. That has attracted attention toward the Bessemer election, along with hopes that the campaign will kickstart organizing efforts across the country amid a yearslong decline in private-sector union membership.Interest in organizing Amazon warehouses accelerated during the coronavirus pandemic. As the virus forced many indoors, front-line workers at Amazon and other companies continued to report to work to provide essential services, shedding a light on warehouse working conditions.Last spring, amid surging cases, Amazon warehouse and delivery workers across the country called out a lack of coronavirus safety measures and inadequate sick leave, among other concerns. Some workers staged protests and walkouts, as well as circulated online petitions, which drew more scrutiny against Amazon from lawmakers. Tensions between Amazon and some workers grew further following claims that it unfairly retaliated against and fired employees who were outspoken critics of its labor practices.BHM1 opened in March 2020, while Amazon was in the midst of a record hiring spree to meet a coronavirus-fueled surge in online orders. Employees in support of the union had expressed a number of concerns about working conditions, such as the breakneck pace of picking, packing and shipping items, in addition to workers not having enough time to use the bathroom."We first started to talk about unionizing one day during a break," Jennifer Bates, a Bessemer warehouse worker who reached out to the RWDSU last summer alongside other coworkers, told a Senate committee last month. "People were upset about the breaks being too short and not having enough time to rest, about being humiliated by having to go through random security checks. Others didn't like that they never actually spoke to a manager, they just got messages on an app or via text."Not all BHM1 workers saw the merits of a union at their facility. During a roundtable hosted by Amazon last month, Ora McClendon, a Bessemer employee, said the union doesn't align with "what we're doing here at BHM1." Other workers who spoke at the roundtable spoke positively about working at Amazon and voiced skepticism about what kind of impact a union would have on their job."In my view, my vote is no," McClendon said. "We don't need a union here. We're doing very well, we have the greatest leadership. We work as a team and that's very important here."

2021/04/08, Inside Amazon's first Amazon Fresh grocery store in Los Angeles.AmazonAmazon is opening its first grocery stores on the East Coast, the company confirmed Thursday, in the latest sign of its efforts to upend traditional supermarkets.The company plans to open two grocery stores in the Washington, D.C., area. One will be in the city's Logan Circle neighborhood and the other will be in the northern Virginia town of Franconia, not far from Amazon's second headquarters, dubbed HQ2, which is in the Crystal City section of Arlington.Two other grocery stores are planned for the Philadelphia suburb of Warrington, Pennsylvania, and for Chevy Chase, Maryland, Amazon confirmed Thursday. The company declined to comment on whether the four stores will be Fresh stores or when the locations will open."We're thrilled to bring two Amazon grocery stores to the Washington, D.C. and northern Virginia area, creating hundreds of new job opportunities for residents living in the region," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement. "We can also confirm that we're hiring for Zone Leads for an Amazon grocery store in the Warrington, PA and Chevy Chase, MD area."In September, Amazon opened its first Fresh grocery store in Los Angeles' Woodland Hills neighborhood. It has since opened a handful of other locations throughout Southern California and in several suburbs of Chicago.Amazon's Fresh stores look like a traditional supermarket, but also feature some high-tech touches, such as smart Dash Carts that let shoppers skip the checkout line, and voice-activated Echo Show displays. However, unlike Amazon-owned Whole Foods, Fresh stores are meant to appeal to a broader array of shoppers, by offering products at lower price points than the upscale grocer, as well as traditional staples including Coca-Cola drinks and Kellogg's cereal. There's also a dedicated store area for shoppers to pick up and return Prime packages.Amazon now has 11 Fresh stores in operation. Last month, Bloomberg identified at least 28 more Fresh locations that are in the works. The company is also testing its "Just Walk Out" cashierless technology at a Fresh store in Illinois, according to Bloomberg.Since acquiring Whole Foods for $13.7 billion in 2017, Amazon has expanded its ambitions of cracking open the $900 billion U.S. grocery industry, striking fear in the likes of Walmart, Kroger and Albertsons. In addition to the Fresh stores, Amazon also operates a number of cashierless Go convenience and Go Grocery stores.With its Fresh stores, Amazon appears to be going after "a squarely middle income customer who may shop at both discounters and conventional grocers already," Morgan Stanley analysts said in a note on Tuesday. Morgan Stanley said the Fresh stores offer "nothing too special" compared to typical supermarkets, but their real value may be as "nodes of fulfillment" that are close to consumers."As consumers increasingly demand same day grocery fulfillment (both for delivery and pickup at store), Fresh stores could therefore fill a previously missing hole in AMZN's grocery fulfillment process while also building AMZN's brand in food retail," the analysts wrote.VIDEO12:4712:47Why U.S. malls are disappearingRetail

2021/04/06, An Amazon-sponsored billboard urging employees to return their unionization ballots is seen on March 28, 2021 in Bessemer, Alabama.Elijah Nouvelage | Getty ImagesAmazon workers around the world are anxiously awaiting the results of a high-stakes union election at one of the company's warehouses in Bessemer, Alabama. Voting wrapped up on March 29 in the election to determine whether roughly 5,800 workers at the BHM1 warehouse will join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. Vote counting began the next day and the public portion of the count is expected to begin as soon as Wednesday.The effort has shaped up to be one of the most consequential union elections in recent history. If they win, the workers would establish the first union at a U.S. Amazon facility, marking a major victory for workers in the face of Amazon's staunch anti-union efforts. The election is being closely watched by workers, labor advocates, politicians and other groups for its potential to kickstart future organizing attempts elsewhere. The RWDSU has already heard from more than 1,000 U.S. Amazon workers who are eager to organize. With ballots mailed in and vote counting underway, it may seem that Amazon and the union are nearing the finish line in the election. But the process is likely far from over. Both sides can contest ballots, and depending on the outcome of the vote, further legal battles could lie down the road. Here's what to expect as the union election continues: What's happening now A week ago Tuesday, the first stage of counting kicked off via a private video conference. During this portion, the National Labor Relations Board will call out each voter's name, which is listed on a yellow envelope that contains a sealed blue envelope with their marked ballot inside. The actual ballot that lists each worker's vote is anonymous.Amazon and the union will be allowed to contest ballots based on factors like whether an employee's job title entitles them to vote or an illegible signature. Employee eligibility could shape up to be a major reason for contested ballots because turnover at Amazon warehouses can be high. Additionally, Reuters reported last month that ballots were sent out to some employees who no longer work at Amazon.If the envelope is contested, it will be set aside. If it's unchallenged, the NLRB will remove the blue ballot envelope and place it in the ballot box.It's unclear how many ballots were cast out of the 5,800 employees that were eligible to vote, but it's likely that the NLRB will have to sort through thousands of envelopes. The sheer size of the bargaining unit, combined with the fact that votes were submitted via mail, has meant that the election process has taken longer than usual.Signs reading "vote" hang outside the Amazon.com, Inc. BHM1 fulfillment center on March 28, 2021 in Bessemer, Alabama.Patrick T. Fallon | AFP | Getty Images"When you have a facility that is that large, it adds to the amount of time that is going to be taken in the counting process," said Mark Pearce, an NLRB chairman during the Obama administration and executive director of the Workers' Rights Institute at Georgetown University Law Center. "So the timetable for a final count is kind of fluid."Last Friday, the NLRB finished sifting through half of the mailed-in ballots, putting them on track to begin the public portion of the vote count as soon as Wednesday, though the timing could still shift. Once the private portion is complete, the NLRB will begin to count the unchallenged ballots in a public session open to members of the media. To win, the union needs a simple majority of the votes cast at Amazon's Bessemer warehouse.If there are enough challenged ballots to affect the outcome, the final tally will be temporarily halted until those challenges are resolved. "So that also puts more time on the clock before a final result comes in," Pearce said.Future challenges could prolong the processChallenged ballots aren't the only procedure that could prolong the process.After the ballots are tallied, either Amazon or the RWDSU can raise objections over conduct during the election. Those objections must be filed to the NLRB's regional director within five days of the final tally. The regional director will investigate the claims, and if there's sufficient evidence, it will schedule a hearing where each side can present evidence.For instance, an employer could argue that a union gave out gifts to sway voters, or the union could file an objection or an unfair labor practice charge, saying that the employer gave out raises to induce workers to vote no, Pearce said.Amazon could find itself in hot water when it comes to one particular benefit program, Pearce said. The company has an annual program, referred to as "The Offer," that gives full-time workers the option to resign from their role in exchange for an exit bonus starting at $1,000."The Offer" wouldn't be considered unlawful outside of an election, but the NLRB might consider the program to be an election violation during a union campaign, under the guise that it violated workers' rights that are protected under the National Labor Relations Act, Pearce said."If that program is not suspended, there is most assuredly going to be objections and unfair labor practice charges filed with regard to that," Pearce said. "The complaint could be that this program is inherently destructive of an employee's right to pursue unionizing, even if the employer maintains that there's no evidence of unlawful motive."Amazon disputed claims that "The Offer" is related to the union vote in Bessemer. The annual program, launched in 2014, was extended to employees in North America this year between Feb. 24 and March 16. Amazon spokesperson Heather Knox told CNBC in a statement: "While we hope employees stay with and grow their careers at Amazon, this is a voluntary program that's designed to provide extra support for those who decide that Amazon isn't part of their long-term career plan."People protest in support of the unionizing efforts of the Alabama Amazon workers, in Los Angeles, California, March 22, 2021.Lucy Nicholson | ReutersThe union could also raise objections over the placement of a U.S. Postal Service mailbox at the warehouse during the election. Labor experts have said that the mailbox, which was surrounded by a tent and a sign from Amazon encouraging workers to vote, could unduly influence workers by asserting that Amazon is involved in collecting and counting ballots. Knox said the mailbox was installed by the U.S. Postal Service and that only the USPS collects outgoing mail and puts incoming mail in the box. "As we have said all along, every employee should have the opportunity to vote in this important decision," Knox said. "This mailbox is enclosed in a tent making it convenient, safe, and private for our employees to vote on their way to and from work if they choose to, or use it for any of their other mailing needs."Challenges to the vote tally might not end at the NLRB office in Alabama. Either party can appeal the regional director's ruling to the NLRB board in Washington. The board could order a new election to be held, or if the board finds that the conduct was extraordinarily egregious, it could order Amazon to bargain with the union.The board, which acts as a quasi-judicial body, is typically made up of five members. However, one seat remains vacant after Pearce finished his term in August 2018. Republicans have a 3-1 majority on the board, but one seat will be up for grabs when Trump-era appointee William Emanuel's term expires in August."What the state of that will be by the time this has to come to the board is anybody's guess," Pearce said. "It could very well be that they'll be a time when you have two Democrats and two Republicans and a resolution might be a challenge because it could be a 2-2 tie."There's much more work to be done before the election could escalate to the NLRB's headquarters. With all eyes on Bessemer, Pearce said, the public should feel reassured by the NLRB's record of handling union elections judiciously."Tension is going to be mounting as the process goes forward, but I know one thing, those people on the ground running the election are dedicated folks," Pearce said. "There is going to be a high degree of integrity in the process."VIDEO1:2501:25Ballot counting begins in historic Amazon union vote in AlabamaThe News with Shepard Smith

2021/04/12, In this articleGOOGLThomas Kurian, chief executive officer of cloud services at Google LLC, speaks during the Google Cloud Next '19 event in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Tuesday, April 9, 2019. The conference brings together industry experts to discuss the future of cloud computing.Michael Short | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesGoogle maintains a piece of software, Cloudtop, that employees use to access internal programs. It's the sort of thing that might be helpful for companies that want to keep their employees productive as they work from home while sheltering in place to avoid further spread of the coronavirus.However, when Google's cloud customers ask for a virtual desktop solution, Google refers them to third-party solutions instead, according to two people familiar with the company's cloud business, who asked for anonymity as they were discussing internal business matters.Google's approach stands in sharp contrast to market leaders Amazon and Microsoft. Both have their own virtual desktop services, and both have seen an uptick in usage during the pandemic. For many companies navigating remote work at scale for the first time, relying on cloud providers to deal with infrastructure is easier than keeping administrators on site to manage servers — or mailing PCs to new employees.For instance, after Zoom saw a surge in new customers during the pandemic, the video-calling software company signed up for more than 1,000 Amazon WorkSpaces virtual desktops for its help desk employees, Amazon said in November. In May, AWS said oil and gas pipeline operator TC Energy had signed up for Amazon WorkSpaces so employees could securely work from home.For Microsoft, the boom was important enough that CEO Satya Nadella mentioned it on the company's quarterly earnings call with analysts last April. "Usage of Windows Virtual Desktop tripled this quarter, as organizations deploy virtual desktops and apps on Azure to enable secure remote work," Nadella said.No plans to make Cloudtop available to customersGoogle first made its Cloudtop service available to employees in 2017. It's meant to help them build software, interact with internal systems and communicate through internet relay chat, or IRC. The service offers desktops running the Linux and Windows operating systems, which can come in handy for testing source code.In previous years, Google has impressed the information technology industry by making software that it relies on for its core internet businesses available for outsiders to use. It released the Cloud Bigtable and Cloud Spanner databases after describing the architecture of the underlying software in academic papers, for instance.Google published a paper on its virtual desktop software in 2018. Over 25% of Google employees use virtual desktops, and Google migrated the software to its public cloud from its corporate infrastructure to improve the user experience and decrease the total cost of ownership, according to the paper.But that hasn't translated into a product for outsiders.A Google spokesperson said the company recognizes the increased demand for virtual desktops as people work remotely, but it does not currently plan to offer Cloudtop as a cloud service. Instead, the company prioritizes its offerings from third parties in the virtual desktop market — Telus uses a product from privately held Itopia on Google's cloud, while Equifax relies on Citrix software on the Google cloud, for instance. Other customers use a product from privately held Workspot.Promoting products from partners gives clients the ability to extend technologies they use in their data centers into the public cloud, and customers won't get locked in to a proprietary service, the spokesperson said.These products have gained momentum since the coronavirus appeared. In 2020 revenue growth from Citrix's Workspace segment, which includes its virtual desktop software, accelerated to about 13% year over year, compared with 5% in the prior year. It's profitable revenue, too: Citrix reported a gross margin of nearly 85%, higher than 97% of companies in the S&P 500 index, according to FactSet.That growth does benefit Google to some degree: The company takes a 20% cut of the fees that third parties charge customers.But none of the third-party options is a smash hit, according to the two people familiar with the company's cloud business."It was a little bit surprising that Google wasn't more present in that market," said Michael Silver, an analyst at technology research firm Gartner who has covered the category. "I don't know why it wasn't."WATCH: Google Cloud's Thomas Kurian on the future of cloud computingVIDEO3:2903:29Google Cloud's Thomas Kurian on the future of cloud computingSquawk Alley

2021/04/09, In this articleAMZNThe Amazon fulfillment warehouse at the center of a unionization drive is seen on March 28, 2021 in Bessemer, Alabama.Elijah Nouvelage | Getty Images News | Getty ImagesRoughly 500 ballots submitted in Amazon.com's landmark union election have been challenged in a contest that will determine whether an Alabama warehouse becomes the online retailer's first organized workplace in the United States, people familiar with the matter said.With about half of roughly 3,200 ballots counted, the election is currently poised to result in workers rejecting a unionization push by a more than 2-1 margin, potentially dealing a blow to organized labor.The challenged ballots could take on significance if the union meaningfully closes the gap when additional votes are counted. The U.S. National Labor Relations Board would adjudicate the disputed ballots if necessary to determining the outcome.Representatives for Amazon and the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union (RWDSU) challenged the ballots during closed-door election proceedings that lasted more than a week before U.S. officials began publicly counting votes. They were able to question ballots on suspicion of tampering, a voter's eligibility and other issues.It is not clear how many votes each side challenged. The union on Wednesday said hundreds of ballots were contested, mostly by Amazon. The company has not commented on that claim.Of the 3,215 ballots received, workers have so far voted 1,100-463 against forming a union at the warehouse in Bessemer, Alabama, after several hours of counting on Thursday. The vote count will resume at 8:30 a.m. CT (1330 GMT) on Friday.Unionizing Amazon, the second-largest private employer in America, has been a goal for the U.S. labor movement, which is aiming to reverse long-running declines in membership. Union membership fell to 11% of the eligible workforce in 2020 from 20% in 1983, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics has said.

2021/04/05, In this articleAMZNAmazon.com founder and CEO Jeff Bezos.Getty ImagesThe National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) has found Amazon illegally retaliated against two of its most outspoken internal critics when it fired them last year.Last April, Amazon fired Emily Cunningham and Maren Costa, two former user experience designers, for "repeatedly violating internal policies." Cunningham and Costa argued they were fired in retaliation for their continued criticism of Amazon.The NLRB confirmed to CNBC that it found merit to Cunningham and Costa's unfair labor practice complaint, which was filed last October. If Amazon doesn't agree to settle the case, the agency said it would file a complaint against Amazon in the next few weeks and set a trial date in the coming months. News of the NLRB's decision was first reported by The New York Times.In a statement, Amazon spokesperson Jose Negrete said the company disagrees with the NLRB's decision."We support every employee's right to criticize their employer's working conditions, but that does not come with blanket immunity against our internal policies, all of which are lawful," Negrete said. "We terminated these employees not for the reasons cited in the preliminary finding, but because they repeatedly violated internal policies."Costa and Cunningham were members of the employee advocacy group Amazon Employees for Climate Justice, which has called on Amazon to develop a comprehensive climate change plan, among other environmental initiatives.During the coronavirus pandemic, Costa and Cunningham raised concerns about the company's treatment of warehouse workers and a lack of safety measures for front-line employees.They also participated in a series of actions to pressure Amazon to change how it responds to workers who speak out against its policies. Last January, AECJ organized hundreds of employees to intentionally violate Amazon's external communications policy, which forbids employees from speaking about the company's business without approval from management.In their complaint to the NLRB, Costa and Cunningham allege that Amazon violated federal labor law by firing them "based on discriminatory enforcement of policies or work rules, including its non-solicitation and communication policies."Amazon's external communications policies also "chill and restrain employees in the exercise" of rights and activities that are protected by federal labor laws, according to the complaint, which was filed by a representative from the Seattle chapter of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.The NLRB decision comes as Amazon is staring down a closely-watched union vote at one of its Alabama warehouses. The NLRB began counting votes last week and it could take a few days or weeks to reach an outcome.The union vote is just the latest turning point in Amazon's growing tensions with its frontline workforce. Warehouse and delivery workers have raised concerns about a lack of coronavirus safety measures during the pandemic, along with other issues around working conditions.A number of Amazon employees who spoke out about pandemic working conditions have since filed complaints with the NLRB alleging the company illegally fired them, among other company retaliations. The NLRB has sided with the Amazon workers in several cases, while other cases are ongoing.Enough Amazon workers have filed charges against the company over the last year that the NLRB is considering launching a national investigation, NBC News reported last month.-- Reuters contributed to this report.VIDEO1:2501:25Ballot counting begins in historic Amazon union vote in AlabamaThe News with Shepard Smith

2021/04/08, In this articleAMZNPeople protest in support of the unionizing efforts of the Alabama Amazon workers, in Los Angeles, California, March 22, 2021.Lucy Nicholson | ReutersMore than 3,200 ballots were cast in a high stakes union election at one of Amazon's Alabama warehouses, according to the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union.The election was open to more than 5,800 employees at Amazon's Bessemer, Alabama, warehouse, who are voting whether to join the RWDSU. With 3,215 total ballots cast, that resulted in a turnout rate of roughly 55%, which is higher than what the RWDSU initially estimated.Workers had until March 29 to submit their ballots via mail. Vote counting began last week via a private video conference, presided over by the NLRB, during which Amazon and the union could contest ballots based on factors like an illegible signature or whether a person's job classification entitles them to vote.The public portion of the vote count is expected to begin as soon as Thursday or Friday morning, the RWDSU said.Hundreds of ballots were challenged, mostly by Amazon, according to the RWDSU. If the margin of victory ends up being less than the total number of challenged ballots, the final tally will be temporarily halted until those challenges are resolved via a hearing held by the NLRB. Any ballots that are accepted will then be added to the tally.There could still be further legal challenges in store, as either Amazon or the union have the opportunity to challenge the election results, which could further delay the outcome.The election in Bessemer has become a closely watched event in and outside of Amazon, as it would establish the first union at one of the e-commerce giant's warehouses in the U.S.Bessemer employees in favor of the union have raised a number of issues about the breakneck pace of work, a lack of adequate break time and other grievances. However, Amazon has maintained that it doesn't need a union to come between it and its workers.Representatives from Amazon and the NLRB didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.VIDEO2:1902:19Vote count begins in Amazon's potential months-long union fightTech

2021/04/03, Amazon drivers begin their delivery routes as workers at an Amazon warehouse in Staten Island, New York prepare to walk off their jobs demanding stepped-up protection and pay after several workers at the facility were diagnosed with COVID-19.Paul Hennessy | Barcroft Media | Getty ImagesAmazon issued an apology on Friday to Rep. Mark Pocan, D-Wis., after mocking his claim that the company's drivers are sometimes forced to urinate in bottles during delivery rounds as a result of the demands of the job."We know that drivers can and do have trouble finding restrooms because of traffic or sometimes rural routes, and this has been especially the case during Covid when many public restrooms have been closed," the company wrote in a blog post.The apology came after the Democratic lawmaker last month condemned Amazon's working conditions and union-busting efforts. Approximately 5,800 workers at Amazon's warehouse in Bessemer, Alabama, are awaiting an upcoming union vote, which is set to begin on Tuesday. Amazon has opposed the historic unionization effort, while Pocan is among legislators who support it."Paying workers $15/hr doesn't make you a 'progressive workplace' when you union-bust & make workers urinate in water bottles," Pocan wrote in the March 24 tweet that set off the controversy.Amazon responded by tweet: "You don't really believe the peeing in bottles thing, do you? If that were true, nobody would work for us. The truth is that we have over a million incredible employees around the world who are proud of what they do, and have great wages and health care from day one."That exchange ignited a series of criticisms and a story from the Intercept detailing how Amazon managers frequently voiced concerns during meetings and in policy documents and emails about the issue of workers urinating while on delivery.Amazon on Friday described its tweet as an "own-goal" because it did not account for the company's large driver population and instead focused on its fulfillment centers. The company also said the tweet didn't "receive proper scrutiny" and was incorrect, acknowledging that drivers do have difficulty finding restrooms."Regardless of the fact that this is industry-wide, we would like to solve it," the company said. "We don't yet know how, but will look for solutions."WATCH: Vote count begins in Amazon's potential months-long union fightVIDEO2:1902:19Vote count begins in Amazon's potential months-long union fightTech

2021/03/29, VIDEO0:3900:39Nearly 6,000 Amazon warehouse workers vote on whether to unionizeThe News with Shepard SmithAmazon is playing an aggressive defense against its critics as it stares down a historic union vote at one of its warehouses in Alabama. In recent days, Amazon has sparred with a handful of high-profile lawmakers on Twitter over its working conditions, tax policies and threats to break up Big Tech. The jabs came from Amazon's official social media account, which counts close to 175,000 followers, and Dave Clark, the company's consumer boss.The social media fury started when Clark last week fired off a series of tweets defending the company's labor practices and taking swipes at Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., who planned to meet with Amazon workers in Alabama amid the high-stakes union drive.The attacks escalated from there, with Amazon replying directly to comments from Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass. In one notable exchange with Rep. Mark Pocan, D-Wis., Amazon discounted claims that its workers are forced to urinate in bottles as a result of the demands of the job, a practice that has been widely documented.It's not unusual for Amazon to engage with its critics in such a public forum. Amazon has been known to spar with lawmakers on Twitter, including President Joe Biden, then a presidential candidate, over the company's tax record. But its latest public relations offensive has taken some onlookers by surprise. According to Recode, a rank-and-file employee inside Amazon even filed a "trouble ticket" over the tweets from the company's official news account, believing they were so out of character that they may have been posted by someone with unauthorized account access.The tweets were reportedly sent out following a directive from Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos to fight back against the company's critics, according to Recode.Representatives from Amazon didn't immediately respond to a request for comment on Bezos' reported involvement in the Twitter controversy.Labor and antitrust experts say the tweets and the pressure from Bezos to fight back indicate Amazon is increasingly concerned about the looming union vote in Alabama, which is set to heat up this week.Approximately 5,800 workers at Amazon's warehouse in Bessemer, Alabama, have been filling out mail-in ballots since Feb. 8 as part of a campaign on whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. Voting ends today and counting will begin on Tuesday. It'll likely be several days before an outcome is reached, as Amazon and the RWDSU can contest ballots.If successful, the union drive could kick off a string of similar organizing attempts at Amazon warehouses across the U.S. and around the world. RWDSU President Stuart Appelbaum told CNBC in an interview that the union has already received more than 1,000 inbound requests from U.S. Amazon workers who are eager to organize their own workplace.Amazon has staunchly opposed the unionization effort. Last month, it held mandatory meetings with workers at the Bessemer facility, known as BHM1, stating the case against unionizing. It sent out text messages and mailers urging workers to "vote NO" and it also set up a website urging workers to "do it without dues."Amazon sent out text messages and mailers urging workers at its Bessemer, Alabama, facility to "vote NO."The Twitter offensive shows that Amazon is doing "everything they can to convince the workforce that they should vote against the union," said Tom Kochan, a professor of industrial relations, work and employment at MIT. In its tweets and messages to workers, Amazon has highlighted that it already offers great health care, a starting wage of $15 an hour and a safe working environment."These are clearly anti-union messages," Kochan said. "[The messages] are carefully constructed to try and stay within what is allowed under the National Labor Relations Act, so that the National Labor Relations Board doesn't eventually rule against them and either call for another election, or if it's most egregious, they could issue a bargaining order and say that Amazon has to negotiate with the union."The messages from Clark and Amazon signal the company possesses a "real fear" of the union drive, said Stacy Mitchell, a co-director of the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, who has spoken out about Amazon's labor practices and testified in front of lawmakers last year about its market power. "Even if the union drive doesn't succeed, this whole unionization effort advances a public conversation about the fact that we need to do something about Amazon's power," Mitchell said.For Amazon, a great deal is at stake if a majority of workers in Bessemer vote to be represented by the RWDSU. Unions stand to disrupt the level of control that Amazon has over its warehouse and delivery workers, such as its ability to unilaterally set the pace of work and hourly wages."If a union comes in, they're going to demand fair conditions to reduce the stress and the pace, and that might require more staffing," Kochan said. "It may require a different pace of work per individual. That's the key."As support for the union has rolled in, Amazon has adopted a more aggressive stance against its critics both on and off Twitter.Earlier this month, when a group of Democratic members of Congress visited Amazon's warehouse in Bessemer, they were greeted with a billboard near the facility that said: "Members of Congress, welcome to Bessemer. Please match Amazon's $15 minimum wage." Amazon has also promoted its $15-an-hour minimum wage in print and digital ads.Rep. Nikema Williams, Rep. Jamaal Bowman, Rep. Terri Sewell, Rep. Cori Bush, Rep. Andy Levin and RWDSU President Stuart Appelbaum pose for a picture at the entrance to Amazon facility as they arrive as members of a congressional delegation to show their support for workers who will vote on whether to unionize, in Birmingham, Alabama, U.S. March 5, 2021.Dustin Chambers | ReutersAfter Appelbaum criticized Amazon's statements on Twitter, Amazon spokesperson Max Gleber told CNBC in a statement on Friday: "Stuart Appelbaum, Chief Disinformation Officer of RWDSU, in an attempt to save his long declining union, is taking alternative facts to a whole new level. But our employees are smart and know the truth — starting wages of $15 or more, health care from day one, and a safe and inclusive workplace."Drew Herdener, vice president of worldwide communications at Amazon, told CNBC in a separate statement on Monday that RWDSU membership has "been declining for the last two decades, but that is not justification for its president Stuart Appelbaum to misrepresent the facts.""We encouraged all of our employees to vote and hope they did so," Herdener said.It's unclear if the PR offensive and pointed rebuttals against critics will pay off for Amazon. Kochan said the tweets run the risk of alienating members of the public, if they haven't already."Amazon may possibly win this battle, we don't know, but they're going to lose this war for support of the public," Kochan said. "It comes at a time when Congress is looking very, very carefully at these very big companies and this is going to be part of that debate."No matter the outcome of the Amazon union drive, labor leaders and lawmakers have seized on the election for its potential to kick-start similar movements at other companies. Appelbaum said many of the themes of the Amazon union drive in Alabama — civil rights, the importance of dignity at work, inequality, a safe working environment — have resonated elsewhere."I think we captured the moment," Appelbaum said in an interview. "This campaign reflects the zeitgeist."

2021/03/30, Rally organized by Workers Assembly Against Racism in support of Amazon workers of warehouse in Bessemer, Alabama rights to unionize at Union Square across of Whole Foods Market owned by Amazon.Lev Radin | LightRocket | Getty ImagesThe National Labor Relations Board has rejected Amazon's request to install a video camera to keep an eye on boxes containing thousands of ballots key to a high-stakes union election in Alabama.The closely watched vote in Bessemer, Alabama, concluded Monday. Approximately 5,800 workers at the facility in Bessemer were eligible to vote to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union (RWDSU). Vote counting was slated to begin at 11 a.m. ET on Tuesday, but the final tally may be days or weeks away, as Amazon and the RWDSU can contest ballots. Amazon had sought to place a video camera in the NLRB's Birmingham office, where votes will be tabulated, to keep an eye on the ballot boxes in the off-hours between counting, according to an NLRB order Monday denying Amazon's request. The camera feed would have been accessible by both Amazon and the RWDSU."Though the mail ballot election in this matter is large, it is not, as the Employer asserts, of a 'special nature,'" Lisa Henderson, acting regional director at the NLRB, said in the ruling. "The Region will conduct the ballot count within view of observers participating via virtual platform as well as in-person observers, and in accordance with Agency procedures and protocols, including those for securing ballot boxes."Amazon declined to comment on the NRLB ruling. An RWDSU spokesperson declined to comment. Amazon had also requested the NLRB apply other enhanced security measures around the ballot boxes, seemingly to prevent issues like tampering. According to the motion, Amazon asked that the NLRB change or reset the security locks on the storage room's door where the ballots will be held, provide Amazon and the RWDSU with an electronic or physical log of when the storage room door is opened during the counting process, and use tamper-proof tape on the ballot boxes or storage room door to "ensure no unauthorized access to the envelopes, ballot boxes, or storage room occurs."The motion is just the latest example of how contentious the union election in Alabama has become. Amazon hasn't faced a union drive this rigorous since 2014, when repair technicians at a Delaware warehouse failed to garner enough votes to form a union.If successful, workers in Alabama would establish the first-ever labor union representation at a U.S. Amazon facility. The campaign has drawn support from onlookers in the U.S. and overseas, including President Joe Biden, who issued a highly valuable endorsement for the union drive earlier this month.Amazon, which has staunchly opposed the union, previously sought to delay the Alabama union drive. It also failed to convince the NLRB to hold an in-person election, arguing that a mail-in ballot format risked depressing turnout and increased the potential for fraud. Even though the seven-week mail-in voting period is complete, both Amazon and the RWDSU likely face a long road ahead in the campaign. Counting was slated to kick off Tuesday morning via a private videoconference, presided over by the NLRB and with Amazon and the RWDSU allowed four observers each to monitor the count. During this portion, the NLRB will read off each voter's name and both sides will be allowed to contest ballots, likely based on factors such as whether an employee's job title entitles them to vote or an illegible signature. Any contested ballots will be set aside.Once this portion is complete, the NLRB will begin to count the unchallenged ballots in a public session open to members of the media. To win, the union needs to secure a simple majority of the votes cast at Amazon's Bessemer warehouse, known as BHM1.VIDEO0:3900:39Nearly 6,000 Amazon warehouse workers vote on whether to unionizeThe News with Shepard Smith

2021/04/13, Amazon boxes are seen stacked for delivery in New York City.Mike Segar | ReutersHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Tuesday:

2021/03/31, The Amazon headquarters sits virtually empty on March 10, 2020 in downtown Seattle, Washington. In response to the coronavirus outbreak, Amazon recommended all employees in its Seattle office to work from home, leaving much of downtown nearly void of people.John Moore | Getty ImagesAmazon has issued new guidance on its return-to-work plans that indicates it doesn't plan to ditch its offices anytime soon.The company expects some of its employees to start coming back to the office as early as this summer, Amazon said in a memo to employees on Tuesday. Most of the company's staff will likely be in the office by the fall.The plans signal that Amazon doesn't intend to follow in the footsteps of other tech companies, by allowing employees to continue to work remotely or via a hybrid model. Microsoft, Facebook, Salesforce, Twitter and Square have all embraced the possibility of more remote work after the pandemic."Our plan is to return to an office-centric culture as our baseline," Amazon told employees in the memo. "We believe it enables us to invent, collaborate, and learn together most effectively."Some of Amazon's employees in Asia are already back in the office. Roughly 10% of its corporate population "currently works from an office each day," the company said.Amazon emphasized in the memo that it expects the return-to-work process to be gradual. The timelines for returning to the office will vary by country, depending on the infection and vaccination rates, Amazon said. The company will continue to require social distancing, face masks, office occupancy limits, temperature screenings and other safety measures at its offices.Amazon previously told employees they could work from home through June. The company's warehouse workers, Whole Foods workers and other front-line employees have continued to report to work throughout the pandemic.The company first hinted at a return to office-based work last year. Amazon announced last August that it would expand its physical offices in six major cities: Dallas, Detroit, Denver, New York, Phoenix and San Diego, which amounts to 900,000 square feet of new office space.However, AWS CEO Andy Jassy has acknowledged that there may be room for different types of working environments in a post-pandemic world. Jassy will take over as Amazon CEO later this year when current CEO Jeff Bezos steps down from the role."I don't think you're going to have people coming back to the office 100% of the time the way they did before," Jassy told CNBC's Jon Fortt last December. "I think there's going to be some type of hybrid model and I think it will probably differ depending on your job function."VIDEO3:3903:39Amazon's cloud chief Andy Jassy on the benefits of remote workSquawk Alley

2021/04/09, The seal of the F.B.I. hangs in the Flag Room at the bureau's headquarters.Chip Somodevilla | Getty ImagesThe FBI arrested a Texas man Thursday on charges of hatching a plan to blow up an Amazon data center in Virginia.Seth Aaron Pendley, 28, of Wichita Falls was taken into custody Thursday after receiving what he thought was a bomb from a like-minded person, but it was actually a dud provided by an FBI undercover employee.Court documents say Pendley came to the FBI's attention after agents received a tip that he was posting alarming statements on a forum popular with militia groups, mymilitia.com. He began communicating through an encrypted messaging app with another person, who told the FBI that Pendley planned to use plastic explosives to attack the tech company's data centers "to kill about 70% of the internet."Read more NBC NewsMatt Gaetz associate likely to plead guiltyOath Keepers leader coordinated with Proud Boys and others before Capitol riot, prosecutors sayAmazon warehouse workers vote not to unionize in Bessemer, AlabamaThe FBI says he told the undercover operative that he wanted to attack the data centers because he thought they served the FBI, CIA and other federal agencies.Pendley was arrested in Fort Worth after he received what he thought was an explosive device and put it into his car.Court documents say he was also present at the U.S. Capitol during the Jan. 6 riot, but a law enforcement official said there's no indication that he entered the building.

2021/03/27, In this articleAMZNAdam Selipsky, chief executive officer of Tableau Software Inc., speaks during the opening keynote of the 2019 Salesforce Dreamforce conference in San Francisco on Nov. 19, 2019.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon Web Services chief Andy Jassy will take the CEO reins from Jeff Bezos later this year. So Jassy picked a person he trusts to replace him as the head of the Amazon unit providing cloud tools for hosting websites and applications.Now it will be up to Adam Selipsky, who was Jassy's right-hand man up until a few years ago when he left to become CEO of Tableau Software, to build on Amazon's already impressive lead.AWS controlled 47% of the cloud infrastructure market in the first half of 2020, according to estimates from industry observer IDC, more than the next four providers put together: Microsoft, Alibaba, Google and IBM.Like Jassy, Selipsky saw AWS grow up and immerses himself in the details across many topics. As recently as 2016, when he gave up his position of vice president for sales, marketing and support, Selipsky sat in on Jassy's back-to-back "chop" meetings to discuss proposals.While Jassy was the last person to comment, Selipsky was second to last, said Jay Wampold, marketing chief of cloud-development start-up Pulumi and a former AWS product marketing director.Amazon workers for decades have leaned on 14 leadership principles such as "customer obsession" and "bias for action." People who know him said Selipsky embodied those principles, like Jassy. He's also well acquainted with Amazon's practice of coming up with fake press releases and frequently-asked-questions documents for potential products. It probably won't take long for Selipsky to remember the rhythm of working at Amazon.But one thing that distinguishes Selipsky from other candidates is that he ran analytics software company Tableau, both as a publicly traded company and as a part of Salesforce. Under Selipsky, Tableau's stock rose as revenue growth accelerated and he led a shift from selling one-time software licenses to subscriptions. He then helped sell it to Salesforce in 2019 for $15.7 billion, which was the company's biggest acquisition ever at the time."More and more, organizations are demanding subscription purchasing options for all of their software, and data analytics is no different. It's no surprise why, as with subscription, our customers get the full power and simplicity of Tableau with lower risk, lower upfront investment and more flexibility," Selipsky told analysts on a 2017 conference call. The push succeeded: By 2019 84% of Tableau's revenue came from subscriptions.'Make it easy'Leading Tableau gave Selipsky greater exposure to the complexities of selling software for non-technical users, said Jay Heglar, chief business officer of Tableau competitor Domo and formerly an AWS sales leader who worked with Selipsky. Now, Heglar said, Selipsky can go back and try to boost adoption of the cloud applications offered by AWS, which historically have not been as popular as its low-level computing, storage and database products.For example, being at Tableau meant allying with resellers that can get software into large accounts, Heglar said. Selipsky could call for Amazon to refine its approach there to promote applications such as the Amazon Chime video-calling service -- which is far from a household name like Zoom, or even Skype.Working at Salesforce might have given Selipsky some new perspective on how to make AWS even bigger. Salesforce spent four times as much on sales and marketing as on research and development in its last fiscal year, showing its emphasis on selling."Make it easy to do business. Make it easy to buy a platform," said Manny Medina, CEO of sales software start-up Outreach and member of the Amazon team that started what became AWS. "Sell me a vision. Good old salesmanship -- you need a little bit of Keith Block in that organization." Block joined Salesforce from Oracle in 2013 and was elevated to co-CEO alongside Marc Benioff before he resigned in February 2020.Medina said it would be helpful if AWS could sell customers technology even if it's not quite available yet -- a sales tactic that Oracle has employed in the past. "If you want to grow, you have to make promises for things that you don't yet have," one former Oracle employee was quoted as saying.Medina also said Selipsky could make a difference if he can make AWS simpler for users. This week a small cloud-infrastructure provider called DigitalOcean, which touts the simplicity of its services and billing practices, debuted on the New York Stock Exchange.Contending with MicrosoftSelipsky will have to contend with a resurgent Microsoft.When Selipsky left Amazon, Microsoft was still bolstering its portfolio with Azure services to match what Amazon could deliver, and Microsoft was still rolling out data centers around the world to boost capacity. Those are not big issues anymore. Microsoft has become more successful at convincing longtime Windows and Office customers to try Azure, in part by encouraging its salespeople to focus on getting customers to use it, instead of just pay for it.Since 2016, Microsoft has also begun using Amazon's own behavior against it. Microsoft executives regularly say that companies don't want to do business with a IT services company that competes with them in other arenas -- a jab at Amazon's continuous expansion from e-commerce into shipping, pharmacy, grocery stores and more.Selipsky will have to respond to that line of inquiry, just as Jassy has. (Amazon has said that "for customers who've built meaningful offerings with significant functionality, we've yet to see these companies struggle to keep growing simply because AWS offers something in that area, too.")Whatever Microsoft is doing, it's working. Azure now appears to be close to eclipsing Office as Microsoft's largest business by revenue. IDC estimates indicate that AWS lost market share in the first half of 2021 compared with the first half of 2020, while Microsoft gained share. Alibaba and Google took share as well.Microsoft has been assembling bundles of products and coming up with enhancements designed for individual industries, such as health care, manufacturing and retail. Amazon has not pursued a vertical-specific strategy to date. AWS has won some business in slow-moving areas, such as financial services and health care."I do think there's an opportunity for Adam to break through on some of that as part of a vertical strategy," said Ed Anderson, a distinguished analyst at technology research company Gartner. For example, AWS could stand to capture more dollars from industries that have been slow to adopt the public cloud, such as financial services and health care.His history at Salesforce will help here, too, as the company went deeper on its own industry push while Selipsky was there.International expansion is another opportunity. Selipsky will be stepping into an Amazon that still isn't always the go-to cloud outside the Americas. Alibaba remains dominant in China, and across Europe AWS has yet to become a big hit."European companies tend to be a little more conservative and less open to disruption and change," Anderson said. Europe has many smaller organizations that work with channel partners and like to continue to use products they're familiar with, Anderson said.A bigger companyThere is also the matter of building up new relationships inside an ever-widening Amazon.Since Selipsky left, Amazon's headcount has more than doubled to about 1.3 million.At least Selipsky will find familiar faces when he rejoins AWS in May. He was involved in many key business wins, including arrangements with Capital One and the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, Heglar said. He was talented at growing leaders inside AWS and was willing to step in to defend his people in meetings when others were pushing back on their ideas, Heglar said. His daughter, Nina Selipsky, works at AWS as an executive content and program specialist.Most importantly, Jassy trusts Selipsky."He will let Adam do his thing," Heglar said.WATCH: Amazon names next AWS CEO as Adam SelipskyVIDEO3:2003:20Amazon names next AWS CEO as Adam SelipskyClosing Bell

2021/04/08, HONG KONG, CHINA - 2021/03/12: American FedEx Express delivery truck seen in Hong Kong. (Photo by Chukrut Budrul/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images)SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2021/03/29, Amazon CEO Jeff BezosAlex Wong | Getty ImagesJPMorgan just named Amazon a top pick for 2021, expecting the e-commerce giant to rally nearly 45% in the next year.

2021/04/07, Attendees walk past televisions showing live streams of Twitch Interactive's video service during the E3 Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles.Patrick T. Fallon | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesTwitch, the Amazon-owned video streaming platform primarily used by gamers to livestream their games, announced a new policy Wednesday empowering the company to take action against users who display certain harmful behaviors entirely offline.The policy represents a unique approach among social media peers at a time when the industry has been under escalating pressure to institute strong and consistent content-moderation policies. As lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have threatened to strip online platforms of their liability protections under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, many platforms have taken steps to place stronger guardrails on what users can post.Under the new policy, Twitch can suspend users for up to an indefinite period of time after a third-party investigator determines there is strong evidence the person has engaged in certain offline behaviors. These actions include engaging in deadly violence, terrorist activities, grooming children for sexual exploitation, committing sexual assault or even "acting as an accomplice to non-consensual sexual activities." It will also continue to consider offline harassment in cases where a user alleges abuse online.Twitch said it will work with "an experienced investigations law firm" to determine the validity of claims, which will rely at times on accessing evidence from law enforcement. The company said it would not take action on a user's account until it concludes its investigation and confirms evidence of wrongdoing.The harmful offline behaviors do not need to involve another Twitch user to be considered a violation, a spokesperson confirmed. That's based on the notion that people who engage in these types of behaviors are more likely to create safety risks for the Twitch community, the spokesperson added.Other social media platforms also take into account real-world harm propagated by users on their platforms, but Twitch's new policy is unique for its explicitness in tackling completely offline behavior and for some of the types of offline behavior it prohibits. For example, Facebook's community standards prevent mass murderers and members of terrorist, hate, criminal or human trafficking organizations from having any sort of presence on its platforms. Twitch's policy encompasses other offline behavior that might not be part of an organized criminal group, such as committing sexual assault.Social media platforms tend to base the majority of their enforcement actions off harm stemming from content that's actually posted on their services. While they may take real-world events into account when evaluating the harm, they typically will point to posts on their own platforms as the tipping point for action.Even when Facebook and Twitter each decided to ban former President Donald Trump from their services following the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, their reasoning was fundamentally rooted in the ways they said he used or could potentially use their platforms to incite further violence.Twitch's new approach comes in the wake of a broader discussion about how certain real-world events should be handled by the tech platforms. Last month, a Business Insider investigation highlighted a woman's accusation against Dominykas Zeglaitis, a member of the so-called Vlog Squad, which is led by popular vlogger David Dobrik. The unnamed woman said Zeglaitis sexually assaulted her on a night she and her friends appeared in one of the group's videos, when she said she was too intoxicated to provide consent. Zeglaitis declined to comment on the allegations to Insider.Google-owned YouTube said following the report it would temporarily prevent Dobrik from monetizing his account through ads. YouTube's policies for creators say that off-platform behavior including violence or cruelty could result in penalties, such as losing out on promotional opportunities or on having their videos surfaced in recommendations for users.Though Twitch will initially tackle a handful of listed serious offenses, the platform said it aims for the guidelines to be iterative. Since offline harm can be difficult to verify, the company first prioritized categories it felt would be most harmful to its community.Users who wish to confidentially report offline harm that falls under the categories prohibited by Twitch can email OSIT@twitch.tv.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: The big, messy business of content moderation on Facebook, Twitter, YouTubeVIDEO18:5818:58The big, messy business of content moderation on Facebook, Twitter, YouTubeTech

2021/03/26, An Amazon worker inside a warehouse during coronavirus pandemicAmazon has received authorization from the Food and Drug Administration for a Covid-19 test that it hopes to use to bolster its employee screening program.The test is being developed by Amazon subsidiary STS Lab Holdco, according to an FDA filing. The test is done via a nasal swab that individuals administer themselves, either under the supervision of a health-care professional or at home.Amazon plans to use the test among its workforce as part of its Covid-19 preparedness and response program, according to a separate FDA document. Depending on their work schedule, employees may be scheduled for an on-site test or they'll be given a collection kit to administer the test at home, the document states.It's unclear if Amazon intends to make the test available beyond its workforce or offer it commercially via its online marketplace. Representatives from Amazon didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.The FDA letter of authorization is addressed to Cem Sibay, vice president of Amazon Labs, who was previously a top executive of Amazon's Prime unit. Business Insider reported last July that Sibay was tapped to steer Amazon's efforts to build an internal Covid-19 testing lab.CNBC reported in June that Amazon built a dedicated team to develop coronavirus testing capacity, assigning research scientists, program managers, procurement specialists and software engineers to support the effort. The company also launched standalone diagnostic labs in Sunnyvale, California, and in Hebron, Kentucky.Amazon has long eyed medical diagnostics as an area of future expansion. In 2018, it looked at buying a start-up developing at-home health tests and it operated a team dedicated to diagnostics within its "Grand Challenge" moonshots group.The FDA authorization comes as Amazon continues to expand its testing program for warehouse and delivery employees. In February, Amazon said its Kentucky lab had processed more than 1 million Covid-19 tests for front-line employees from more than 700 testing sites.Amazon said it has started to automatically assign regular testing appointments for some workers at its facilities, typically every two weeks, although the assigned appointments are voluntary. Previously, employees could only sign up to get tested via an internal system.The assigned appointments fall in line with Amazon's previously stated goal of testing the bulk of its front-line workforce every two weeks. Earlier this week, Amazon said it would begin setting up on-site vaccination clinics at facilities in Missouri, Nevada and Kansas.Last October, Amazon disclosed that nearly 20,000 front-line employees contracted Covid-19 between March 1 and Sept. 19. The disclosure came after labor groups, politicians and Amazon employees repeatedly pressed the company to disclose how many of its workers were infected by Covid-19, among other coronavirus safety concerns.VIDEO1:1501:15Amazon begins on-site vaccinations for employeesClosing Bell

2021/03/30, In this articleAMZNAn RWDSU union rep holds a sign outside the Amazon fulfillment warehouse at the center of a unionization drive on March 29, 2021 in Bessemer, Alabama.Elijah Nouvelage | Getty ImagesThe votes on whether to form a union at Amazon's sprawling Alabama fulfillment center are set to be reviewed starting on Tuesday, with momentum for future labor organizing at America's second-largest private employer hanging in the balance.An agent from the U.S. National Labor Relations Board will sift through ballots sent to more than 5,800 workers at Amazon's Bessemer, Alabama-based warehouse as part of a prolonged process expected to last days and spark legal challenges.Tallying votes might not begin until later this week or next, after both Amazon and the union check the eligibility of ballots cast, said a person familiar with the process. Subsequent procedures and objections could further forestall a certified result, the person said.Amazon has aggressively discouraged attempts by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union (RWDSU) to become the first ever to organize one of the online retail giant's facilities in the United States.A union victory would leave Amazon, second only to Walmart Inc with more than 800,000 employees nationwide, vulnerable to additional organizing efforts and represent a watershed moment for the U.S. labor movement, said Wilma Liebman, a former NLRB chair during the Obama administration."If the union manages to do this, this is really groundbreaking," Liebman said, noting the difficulty of forming unions in southern states, which have laws that discourage workplace organizing. "Amazon is right to be worried."In a statement, Amazon said, "Our employees know the truth—starting wages of $15 or more, health care from day one, and a safe and inclusive workplace. We encouraged all of our employees to vote and hope they did so."RWDSU President Stuart Appelbaum said: "This campaign has already been a victory in many ways. Even though we don't know how the vote will turn out, we believe we have opened the door to more organizing around the country."The union drive has drawn significant attention from elected officials in Washington. U.S. President Joe Biden at the end of February defended workers' rights to form unions free from intimidation and pointed to voting in Alabama while not specifically mentioning Amazon.A congressional delegation visited Bessemer earlier in March and Senator Bernie Sanders, a Vermont Democrat, descended on the area Friday to hold a rally with workers and support the organizing push.Amazon has mounted its own campaign, sending text messages urging current and also former workers to vote against forming a union and telling them that they might sacrifice certain benefits if the push succeeds, a notion the union has disputed.A vote-count battle between Amazon and the union may ensue over the validity of former employees' ballots, Reuters previously reported.Dave Clark, chief executive of Amazon's consumer division, last week railed against Sanders on Twitter ahead of the visit, questioning the senator's progressive bona fides while juxtaposing the e-commerce company's $15 starting wage with a figure of $11.75 in Vermont."So if you want to hear about $15 an hour and health care, Senator Sanders will be speaking downtown. But if you would like to make at least $15 an hour and have good health care, Amazon is hiring," Clark tweeted.Sanders, responding on Twitter, questioned why so much money has been spent to discourage union organizing for better pay, conditions and benefits.

2021/03/25, In this articleAMZNVIDEO1:1501:15Amazon begins on-site vaccinations for employeesClosing BellSome Amazon warehouse workers will soon be able to get vaccinated against Covid-19 at their workplace. Amazon announced Thursday that it's setting up on-site vaccination clinics at fulfillment centers in Missouri, followed by Nevada and Kansas in the coming weeks. At the clinics, which are expected to run for about five days, vaccines will be administered to employees by licensed health-care providers.  The company said it expects to launch vaccination clinics at additional warehouses across the country as more vaccine supply becomes available to front-line employees in other states. It comes as the U.S. continues to pick up the pace of vaccinations, with the nation administering more than 2.5 million shots per day. Companies with essential workers, including Amazon, have been vying to give their workers priority access to the shots.Earlier this month, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued guidance that employers with a large workforce can begin setting up Covid-19 vaccine clinics on site. Agriculture giant Cargill, Tyson Foods and some automakers and manufacturers in Detroit are among a growing list of employers that have launched on-site clinics at some of their facilities.Heather MacDougall, Amazon's vice president for worldwide workplace health and safety, told CNBC in an interview that the company has been working with a third-party administrator who secures the Covid vaccines on Amazon's behalf. "Most of these conversations go on at the state and local level where those decisions are being made, in terms of who's eligible for the vaccine," MacDougall added. Some of Amazon's front-line workers have already been vaccinated in states where they're eligible.The company has nudged its front-line workers to get vaccinated off-site by offering them a bonus of up to $80, or $40 for each dose. Employees who experience side effects from the Covid vaccine are eligible to take unpaid time off, Amazon said.Inside its warehouses, Amazon has taken steps to alleviate fears or concerns around the vaccine among its front-line workers. In private Facebook groups, some warehouse workers in the U.S. have expressed skepticism and uncertainty around the vaccine's side effects or the potential that Amazon will mandate vaccinations among its workforce.Amazon has posted educational information and positive messaging about the vaccine around warehouses, including in "inSTALLments," the informational sheets posted in facility bathrooms. One message viewed by CNBC told workers the vaccine is "safe and effective" and is the "quickest way for life to return to normal."The company also sent out a questionnaire to warehouse workers via Amazon Connections, an internal survey system, to gauge their attitudes about the Covid vaccine and other coronavirus safety measures. One prompt sent to workers said "Covid vaccines and regular Covid testing can help keep you and those you care about safe," with workers given the option to answer "OK" or "I'd rather not answer," according to a separate document viewed by CNBC.Amazon is already seeing sizable interest in the on-site vaccination clinics. More than 1,000 front-line employees have signed up to get vaccinated at Amazon's first on-site clinic at a warehouse outside of St. Louis, Missouri, which opened Thursday, the company said.— CNBC's Bertha Coombs contributed reporting to this article.

2021/03/25, VIDEO1:4701:47Amazon fires back at Bernie Sanders on Twitter ahead of Alabama union voteSquawk BoxAmazon's consumer boss took a swipe at Sen. Bernie Sanders for planning a visit to Alabama, where a historic union election is currently underway at one of the company's warehouses.Dave Clark, CEO of Amazon's worldwide consumer business, fired off a series of tweets late Wednesday and Thursday morning, defending the company's labor practices and taking jabs at the independent senator from Vermont over the debate around raising the federal minimum wage.On Friday, Sanders, rapper Killer Mike and actor Danny Glover are set to meet with Bessemer, Alabama, Amazon workers who are in the process of voting whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. The meeting will take place at a RWDSU union hall in Birmingham, Alabama. Workers began voting by mail on Feb. 8 and ballots are due by Monday. Counting will begin the following day."I welcome [Sanders] to Birmingham and appreciate his push for a progressive workplace," Clark wrote in a tweet Wednesday. "I often say we are the Bernie Sanders of employers, but that's not quite right because we actually deliver a progressive workplace."Clark then doubled down Thursday, arguing that the minimum wage in Sanders' home state of Vermont is $11.75 an hour, while starting pay for Amazon workers is $15 per hour.In a statement, RWDSU President Stuart Appelbaum called Clark's statements "arrogant and tone deaf."He added that he questions whether Amazon believes "that the wage they pay — which is below what workers in nearby unionized warehouses receive and below Alabama's median wage — gives them the right to mistreat and dehumanize their employees, put their workers' health and safety in jeopardy, require them to maintain an unbearable pace, which even Amazon itself admits that a quarter of their workforce won't be able to meet, and to deny working men and women the dignity and respect they deserve."If the working conditions were so great, Amazon wouldn't have such an extraordinarily high turnover rate of over 100 percent a year at its facilities," Appelbaum said.Amazon and some of its executives have previously taken jabs at Sanders, who is a frequent critic of the company. Following criticism from Sanders and other labor advocates, Amazon in 2018 announced it would raise its minimum wage to $15 an hour.Additionally, last week, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos turned down an invitation from Sanders to appear in front of the Senate Budget Committee for a hearing on income inequality. Sanders, who is chairman of that committee, also invited Jennifer Bates, a worker from the Bessemer warehouse where the union election is taking place, to testify.Amazon has played defense as support for the union drive has ramped up from President Joe Biden and lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. In recent weeks, the company has frequently responded to critics of its labor practices on Twitter and it has promoted its $15-an-hour minimum wage in print and digital ads.Labor leaders and lawmakers have seized on the election for its potential to kick-start similar movements at more companies and in other industries. Some Amazon employees in other corners of the country are hoping that the union drive will be successful so that they can ignite support to organize their own workplaces.Amazon has previously said it respects workers' right to join a union, but also that its workers don't need a union to come between them and the company. It has held mandatory meetings with workers stating the case against unionizing and set up a website urging workers to "do it without dues."

2021/03/30, In this articleGMEA person walks past a GameStop in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, U.S., January 29, 2021.Carlo Allegri | ReutersGameStop said on Tuesday it named Amazon executive Elliott Wilke as chief growth officer, the latest top level appointment after shareholder Ryan Cohen took charge of the video game retailer's e-commerce pivot.The company's shares, which were at the heart of a Reddit-driven retail trading frenzy early this year, rose nearly 5% in pre-market trading.GameStop is in the process of shifting its business away from the brick-and-mortar retailer model into an e-commerce business that can compete with large-scale retailers like Target and Walmart, as well as technology companies Microsoft and Sony.Signaling a broader overhaul, at least two executives have recently departed - Chief Customer Officer Frank Hamlin and Chief Financial Officer Jim Bell.Wilke, who has spent nearly seven years at Amazon and last led its Fresh Stores business, will oversee growth strategies and marketing at GameStop.The company had hired another former Amazon executive, Jenna Owens, as Chief Operating Officer earlier this month. She had managed multi-channel fulfillment and distribution at Amazon.This was preceded by the appointment of Matt Francis as its first ever Chief Technology Officer last month. He was also an Amazon head of the engineering team at Amazon Web Services.The shakeup proliferated the company's board as it announced the expected retirement of eight directors at its annual meeting this year.Earlier this month, GameStop had announced the formation of a three-member committee chaired by Ryan Cohen, which is responsible for the moves leading to a re-jigging of the company's leadership.The company on Tuesday also named former Chewy.com executives Andrea Wolfe and Tom Peterson to lead brand development and merchandising, respectively

2021/03/22, A man holds a FIT-CISL flag outside a distribution centre during a strike at Amazon's logistics operations in Italy, in Passo Corese, Italy March 22, 2021.Remo Casilli | ReutersAmazon warehouse and delivery employees have gone on strike in Italy to raise concerns around working conditions.The 24-hour strike is taking place at several Amazon warehouses in Italy, including in Tuscany, Florence and Pisa. Trade unions FILT-CGIL, FIT-CISL and Uiltrasporti said it's the first national strike to affect Amazon's entire logistics operations in Italy.The strike comes as tensions have grown between Amazon and its front-line workforce in Europe and the U.S. amid the coronavirus pandemic. Warehouse workers in Italy and other parts of Europe went on strike last year to call on Amazon to implement greater coronavirus safety measures. Workers across the U.S. also participated in walkouts and protests last year to highlight similar concerns.Additionally, warehouse workers at Amazon's Bessemer, Alabama, facility, known as BHM1, are currently voting on whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. Unions have a stronger foothold among some of Amazon's European workforce, but Amazon has managed to head off organizing efforts in the U.S.FILT-CGIL, FIT-CISL and Uiltrasporti called the strike after they said negotiations broke down with Assoespressi, an employer association representing last-mile and e-commerce couriers, including some of Amazon's third-party delivery firms in Italy.Workers and the unions are calling on Amazon and Assoespressi to engage in discussions around shifts, the pace of work, job security when contracts change, fewer working hours for drivers and more job stability for temporary workers, among other issues. They're also calling for access to a "Covid allowance for operations in constant pandemic conditions."Salvatore Pellecchia, general secretary of FIT-CISL, told CNBC in a statement that 75% of Amazon workers in Italy participated in the strike on Monday. He added that the union expected a lower turnout because many of the participants are temporary workers, who feel their job could be at risk if they strike."If Amazon does not change its position, we will be forced to organize another strike," Pellecchia said in a statement. "Amazon has registered a huge increase in turnover and profits thanks to the pandemic, and now must talk with us to give its employee what they are waiting for."Amazon disputed FIT-CISL's claim that a significant percentage of its workers in Italy participated in the strike. Less than 10% of Amazon's 9,500 employees took part in the action, Stuart Jackson, communications director for Amazon's Europe, Middle East and Africa operations told CNBC in a statement."The fact is, Amazon and our Italian network of independent delivery service providers already offer what these groups are asking for — excellent pay, excellent benefits and excellent opportunities for career growth, all while working in a safe, modern work environment," Jackson said. "The unions know this."Representatives from FILT-CGIL and Uiltrasporti didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.VIDEO4:5404:54Amazon union vote underway in Alabama warehouseThe Exchange

2021/03/23, VIDEO3:2003:20Amazon names next AWS CEO as Adam SelipskyClosing BellAmazon has chosen to Adam Selipsky, currently CEO of Salesforce-owned data-visualization software maker Tableau, to run its Amazon Web Services division. Andy Jassy, the current head of AWS and the person chosen to replace Jeff Bezos as the head of all of Amazon, informed employees in an email on Tuesday.Amazon rules the market for public cloud infrastructure that companies use to run internal and external applications, a modern alternative to relying on in-house servers, storage and networking equipment. In 2019 industry research company Gartner estimated that Amazon had 45% of the market, more than any other company, including Microsoft and Google. As such, Selipsky becomes the most visible person in the growing category, perhaps second only to Jassy, who enters a bigger job when he becomes Amazon CEO in the third quarter.Selipsky is one of the people several insiders had identified as a possible successor to Jassy. The two men have an excellent relationship, a person familiar with the matter told CNBC. Selipsky had held a prominent position inside AWS, as vice president for sales, marketing and support, before leaving to run then-public Tableau in 2016. Salesforce bought Tableau for $15.7 billion in 2019.The role Selipsky left at Amazon was vacant for years. Last year AWS chose executive Matt Garman, who had worked on AWS' core EC2 virtual-computing service, to take over the position.Selipsky was viewed as a rising star within Salesforce after the Tableau acquisition. At an event hosted by Goldman Sachs in January, the bank's CEO David Solomon asked Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff to name something that investors aren't fully appreciating about his company. As part of his answer, Benioff listed a few top executives.We "have so many other CEOs in our midst like Adam Selipsky, the CEO of Tableau," Benioff said. "Soon, we'll have Stewart, CEO of Slack," he added, referring to Stewart Butterfield. Salesforce CFO Mark Hawkins responded to a question about the Tableau integration in December. He said: "It's a best-in-class, unique asset in the world. Great leadership team, great CEO with Adam Selipsky and the management team."Selipsky has remained president and CEO of Tableau since the acquisition. Mark Nelson, who joined Tableau as an executive vice president of product development in 2018 from SAP-owned expense-management service Concur, where he had been technology chief, will become the new head of Tableau, a Salesforce spokesperson told CNBC in an email. Nelson starts in the new job immediately, according to a person close to Salesforce, while Selipsky will return to Amazon on May 17, Jassy wrote in the memo. Selipsky joined Amazon in 2005, a year before the company introduced EC2 and the S3 storage service, and stayed for 11 years. Before that he had been a vice president at RealNetworks.A copy of the memo follows. Amazon later confirmed the move in a blog post.I want to share that Adam Selipsky will be the next CEO of AWS.Adam is not a new face to AWS. Back in 2005, Adam was one of the first VPs we hired in AWS, and ran AWS's Sales, Marketing, and Support for 11 years (as well as some other areas like our AWS Platform services for a spell). Adam then became the CEO of Tableau in 2016, and ran Tableau for the last 4.5 years. Tableau experienced significant success during Adam's time as CEO-- the value of the company quadrupled in just a few years, Tableau transitioned through a fundamental business model change from perpetual licenses to subscription licensing, and the company was eventually acquired by Salesforce in 2019 in one of the largest software acquisitions in history. Following the acquisition, Adam remained the CEO of Tableau and was a member of Salesforce's Executive Leadership Team.Adam brings strong judgment, customer obsession, team building, demand generation, and CEO experience to an already very strong AWS leadership team. And, having been in such a senior role at AWS for 11 years, he knows our culture and business well. With a $51B revenue run rate that's growing 28% YoY (these were the Q4 2020 numbers we last publicly shared), it's easy to forget that AWS is still in the very early stages of what's possible. Less than 5% of the global IT spend is in the cloud at this point. That's going to substantially change in the coming years. We have a lot more to invent for customers, and we have a very strong leadership team and group of builders to go make it happen. Am excited for what lies ahead.Andy P.S. Adam will return to AWS on May 17. We will spend the subsequent several weeks transitioning together before making the change sometime in Q3.-- CNBC's Ari Levy contributed to this report.

2021/03/25, In this articleAMZNAmazon's new Fire TV softwareAmazonAmazon on Thursday announced that its big new Fire TV software update is rolling out to devices now. It has a totally redesigned home screen and features like separate user profiles, so recommendations for what to watch are different for each person in your family.The software was first announced in September and made its debut on the Fire TV Stick Lite and third-generation Fire TV Stick in December, but now everyone who owns Amazon's Fire TV Cube (1st and 2nd Gen) and the 3rd-gen Fire TV, the Fire TV Stick 4K will be able to use the new features. Amazon says it's updating smart TVs and the second-generation Fire TV Stick later this year.The new features may help it compete more aggressively against Roku, which still has a 50% market share of global connected TV streaming hours with strong growth opportunities, according to an analyst note from Deutsche Bank in August.Amazon's new Fire TV softwareAmazonUp to six people can create different profiles with the new software. So, if you watch a lot of comedy shows, Amazon might recommend other comedies you'll like. But if your spouse watches a lot of dramas, they'll get recommendations for more of that type of content. Currently, with a single profile, Amazon just recommends more based on whatever has been watched, no matter who does the viewing.The new Amazon Fire TV interface, which includes user profiles.AmazonThe personalization also extends to the home screen, where you can pin specific apps to the top for quick access. Maybe you use Netflix, YouTube TV and Disney+ often, for example. You can put new smaller icons for those up top. Recommendations for the stuff you watch across services are displayed below that.There's also a new "Live" tab that shows you a channel-guide so it's easier to jump right into live TV, if you pay for a streaming TV service like Sling or YouTube TV. Amazon told CNBC in September it designed this to make it a more familiar experience for people who are switching from cable to streaming.The update also includes deeper integration with the Alexa voice assistant, so you can say "Alexa go to Live TV" and it'll launch the live streaming TV service you pay for.Amazon's new Fire TV softwareAmazonFinally, there's a new "Find" section that makes it easier to find something to watch. It shows movies, on-demand TV shows, live TV, your watch list and more. You can update your Fire TV by opening Settings and selecting "My Fire TV," then "About" and choosing "Check for System Update."VIDEO3:0303:03Amazon unveils new hardware: Echo devices, Fire TV and new gaming streaming service LunaPower LunchSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/03/31, In this articleLSEG-GBA distributor of Deliveroo is seen riding his bike with a package with food on a street on July 31, 2019 in Madrid, Spain.Jesús Hellín | Europa Press | Getty ImagesLONDON — When Deliveroo chose London for its hotly anticipated IPO, the food delivery company was hailed as a "true British tech success story" by U.K. Finance Minister Rishi Sunak.But the Amazon-backed company failed to deliver on its first day of trading Wednesday. Shares plunged sharply as markets opened, with investors questioning Deliveroo's ability to generate profits and an eye-popping £7.6 billion ($10.5 billion) valuation."That path to profitability is what is potentially under threat if we see increased regulation around workers' rights," Hargreaves Lansdown equity analyst Sophie Lund-Yates told CNBC's "Street Signs Europe.""I think that is the biggest reason we have seen so much anxiety injected into the trading this morning."The food delivery app — founded and led by American entrepreneur and former Morgan Stanley analyst Will Shu — has become one of the best-known start-ups in the U.K. It employs over 2,000 people across 12 markets and uses a network of over 100,000 riders to deliver food from 115,000 restaurants and grocers. By market value, its IPO is London's biggest since Glencore went public nearly a decade ago.But the stock got a frosty reception from investors. Deliveroo has been plagued by worries over the risks to its business model if regulators crack down on the gig economy. Earlier this month, Uber reclassified all 70,000 of its U.K. drivers as workers entitled to a minimum wage and other benefits, after the country's Supreme Court ruled that a group of the app's drivers should be treated as workers.Deliveroo issued its shares at just £3.90, right at the bottom of its initial range. However, shortly after trading started on the London Stock Exchange, the share price fell 30% to around £2.73 and questions are now being asked about how much further it can fall. Theoretically, Deliveroo can cancel the IPO until April 7 as it has opted for a "conditional offer."VIDEO3:2603:26Workers' rights threaten Deliveroo profitability, says analystStreet Signs EuropeBy comparison, U.S. rival DoorDash saw its shares surge more than 85% on the opening day of trading in December, giving it a market cap of over $60 billion at the time. Closer to home, Deliveroo faces fierce competition from the likes of Uber and Just Eat Takeaway. That rivalry has added to concerns about the ability of Deliveroo to grow its margins and eventually become profitable.The Deliveroo listing was led by investment banks JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citi, Jefferies and Numis also part of the syndicate. The stock was overallocated but that didn't stop it tanking as it floated, leaving some early investors frustrated with how the investment banks priced the company's shares.  Three hedge funds bet against Deliveroo's stock Wednesday with short positions, according to two people familiar with the matter who preferred to remain anonymous as the details haven't been made public. Short selling is a strategy in which an investor sells borrowed shares and buys them back in future at a lower price, the aim being to pocket the difference if the stock price declines.'Flopperoo'Several top institutional funds have shunned Deliveroo's IPO, citing regulatory risks around its business model and governance. Deliveroo decided to opt for a dual-class share structure, meaning that its founder would have greater voting rights than other investors. While London is pushing for this type of structure to be permitted on the premium segment of its stock exchange — which makes firms eligible for inclusion in benchmark indexes like the FTSE 100 — top investment firms have complained that this may risk watering down investor protections."Deliveroo has gone from hero to zero as the much-hyped stock market debut falls flat on its face," said Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell. "It had better get used to the nickname 'Flopperoo.'""The narrative took a turn for the worst when multiple fund managers came out and said they wouldn't back the business due to concerns about working practices," Mould added. "This is likely to have spooked a lot of people who applied for shares in the IPO offer, meaning they are racing to dump them."Deliveroo tried to persuade its customers in the U.K. to buy £50 million worth of shares in the IPO via its app. These retail investors —  who were able to spend £250 to £1,000 on shares —  are locked in until April 7, meaning they can't sell their shares until restrictions lift."RIP my investment," wrote amateur investor and primatologist Sam Elliot on Twitter after seeing Deliveroo's share price collapse."Thankfully I did the minimum investment of £250 as I knew it was a risky investment," he told CNBC.VIDEO9:2409:24Dark kitchens: Where does your food delivery really come from?CNBC ReportsFred Destin, a venture capital investor who backed Deliveroo in its early days, is optimistic the company will rebound. "Deliveroo might be facing some headwinds but I'm very bullish on the long term opportunity," he told CNBC. "I think the market will over time recognize that it is a resilient and defensible business."Manish Madhvani, co-founder and managing partner at tech investment firm GP Bullhound, said the initial figures are a "bit of a setback" for London, which was "gaining momentum as a listings destination."However, he said it's important to note that the company is still highly valued. "There may have been a mistake on the pricing given the market conditions, but we shouldn't forget how truly pioneering the Deliveroo model is, rather than getting bogged down in the headlines," he said.Growth to valueAnother big concern for investors is the sustainability of high-growth companies like Deliveroo as countries around the world seek to reopen their economies. The rollout of coronavirus vaccines has put pressure on U.S. tech stocks trading at significantly high multiples to revenue, such as Zoom, Netflix and Amazon.Such companies benefited during the pandemic due to lockdown restrictions that resulted in people spending much more of their time at home. Zoom, Netflix and Amazon are still up roughly 107%, 38% and 56% in the last 12 months, respectively."From a more cynical point of view, conditions are about as good as they will ever be when everyone is literally locked in their house," Hargreaves' Lund-Yates told CNBC, adding the company is "really banking on" stay-at-home trends continuing long after the pandemic."Is the current valuation justified?" she added. "It is sadly a case of wait and see there. It's a big question."Clarification: The copy of this article has been updated to better reflect how a conditional listing works on the London Stock Exchange.

2021/03/31, In this articleROO-GBLSEG-GBA Deliveroo cyclist in London, U.K.Dinendra Haria | SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty ImagesLONDON — Shares of British food delivery start-up Deliveroo plunged in its stock market debut Wednesday, as the company faces pressure from top investors and trade unions over workers' rights.Deliveroo, which is backed by Amazon, saw its shares sink around 30% in early deals compared to the issue price, before trimming some losses. Shares were down 26% by the market close.The company priced its shares at £3.90 ($5.36) Tuesday, giving it an expected market value of £7.59 billion, which was at the bottom end of its IPO target range.But the company's share price fell as low as £2.73 Monday as shares began conditional trading Wednesday morning on the London Stock Exchange, wiping approximately £2 billion off its valuation. The company can still cancel the IPO and void any trades made until unconditional trading starts on April 7.Deliveroo sold 384,615,384 shares, equating to an offer size of approximately £1.5 billion. Of that, £1 billion will go to the company itself and £500 million will go to existing shareholders, with Amazon and Will Shu, the company's CEO and co-founder, among those set to gain the most.VIDEO4:1104:11Food delivery category quite strong and set to grow: Sensor TowerSquawk Box EuropeThe company's shares began trading under the ticker "ROO" at 8 a.m. London time on Wednesday. JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs led the listing, while Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citi, Jefferies and Numis were also part of the syndicate. Retail investors won't be able to trade Deliveroo shares until conditional dealings end on April 7.Three hedge funds bet against Deliveroo's stock Wednesday with short positions, according to two people familiar with the matter who preferred to remain anonymous as the details haven't been made public. Short selling is a strategy in which an investor sells borrowed shares and buys them back in future at a lower price, the aim being to pocket the difference if the stock price declines.Gig work concernsSophie Lund-Yates, an equity analyst at Hargreaves Lansdown, said that Deliveroo's price "isn't quite as tasty as it was hoping for.""This isn't hugely surprising given the substantial background noise surrounding the company," she said. "The biggest concern is regulation around worker rights. The flexible employee model of Deliveroo's riders is a huge pillar of the group's plans for success."Deliveroo's IPO offer is the largest in the U.K. since e-commerce firm The Hut Group raised £1.88 billion in a listing last September. In terms of market cap, it is the biggest IPO to take place in London since Glencore went public nearly a decade ago. It's also Britain's largest-ever tech listing by value, surpassing that of The Hut Group and Worldpay which debuted in 2015 before delisting."I am very proud that Deliveroo is going public in London — our home," said Shu in a statement. "As we reach this milestone I want to thank everyone who has helped to build Deliveroo into the company it is today — in particular our restaurants and grocers, riders and customers."He added: "In this next phase of our journey as a public company we will continue to invest in the innovations that help restaurants and grocers to grow their businesses, to bring customers more choice than ever before, and to provide riders with more work. Our aim is to build the definitive online food company and we're very excited about the future ahead."It's a major vote of confidence in London, as the U.K. capital looks to attract high-growth tech companies and boost its financial clout after Brexit. British Finance Minister Rishi Sunak described Deliveroo as a "true British tech success story" when the company announced plans to list in London.However, the IPO has been hit by concerns over Deliveroo's treatment of its drivers, the company's governance and valuation. Legal and General, Aberdeen Standard, Aviva and M&A — which collectively have about £2.5 trillion in assets under management — have all shunned Deliveroo's debut.VIDEO1:4901:49Deliveroo CEO welcomes competition after restaurants try to outmaneuver his appSquawk Box EuropeEach of the investment firms cited concerns about the gig economy in which Deliveroo operates. The company's turquoise-uniformed couriers have become ubiquitous in London and other cities during the coronavirus pandemic, as people turned to food delivery apps for their groceries.Some of Deliveroo's riders are going on strike next Wednesday once its IPO opens up to retail traders, to protest what they see as poor working conditions and low pay. For its part, Deliveroo says its drivers are given flexibility to work when they want and earn £13 an hour on average during the busiest times.That hasn't cooled investor worries over Deliveroo's business model, however. Earlier this month, Uber reclassified all its U.K. drivers as workers entitled to a minimum wage and other benefits after the country's top court ruled a group of drivers should be treated as workers.This is expected to result in higher costs for Uber — potentially to the tune of $500 million, according to Bank of America. Investors are worried that Deliveroo may suffer the same fate, and the company has set aside £112 million to cover potential legal costs relating to the employment status of its riders.Meanwhile, institutional shareholders have also raised concerns with Deliveroo's governance. The company is listing in London with a dual-class share structure, which gives Shu over 50% of the voting rights.Test for LondonDeliveroo's IPO will be a test of London's tolerance for high-growth tech companies that spend heavily on growing at scale before prioritizing profits. It's a mantra that gained popularity in Silicon Valley with Amazon, which had initially been unprofitable for a number of years. Deliveroo remains heavily lossmaking, having reported a loss of £223.7 million million in 2020."Deliveroo is yet to turn a profit, which makes it very difficult to value on a traditional basis," said Lund-Yates."But a market cap of £7.6 billion means the company's worth 6.4 times last year's revenue, which is some way above rival Just Eat's 4.8 times, despite the lower price. That means there's pressure for Deliveroo to deliver the goods, or its share price will be in the firing line."The company has managed to enter the black in recent months thanks to a rise in demand for food delivery.But U.K. investors are worried by Deliveroo's lofty £7.6 billion valuation, especially at a time when vaccines are being rolled out and countries are plotting a reopening of their economies. DoorDash, a U.S. rival to Deliveroo that went public last year, has a significantly higher market cap of around $42 billion.Several tech firms are flocking to London to list their shares, with the likes of Trustpilot and Moonpig having both done so recently. A number of other firms, including Wise and Darktrace, are expected to debut later this year.Martin Mignot, a partner at Index Ventures, one of Deliveroo's earliest backers, said London has the opportunity to become the "go-to" for European tech listings."Deliveroo is a big win for the capital, but much more has to be done," he said. "Compared to U.S. listings, European founders still face more traditional public market investors who are not accustomed to backing high growth tech companies."

2021/04/06, A Peloton Interactive Inc. logo on a stationary bike at the company's showroom in Dedham, Massachusetts, U.S., on Wednesday, Feb. 3, 2021.Adam Glanzman | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Tuesday:

2021/03/29, Source: Cracker BarrelHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Monday:

2021/03/18, In this articleAMZNAmazon's new delivery vanAmazonAmazon is now testing its electric delivery vans in San Francisco, the company announced Thursday.It's the latest expansion in California of Amazon's custom electric vehicles developed in partnership with start-up Rivian Automotive, which has raised about $8 billion since 2019 from investors. Amazon announced last month it had begun testing electric delivery vans in Los Angeles. The company plans to expand the program to 14 more cities this year.Amazon said it selected San Francisco as one of the initial cities to test electric vans from Rivian because of its "great customers, unique terrain and climate." Deliveries will initially be conducted out of Amazon's delivery station in the San Francisco suburb of Richmond, but Amazon expects to start deliveries from other Bay Area sites soon."From what we've seen, this is one of the fastest modern commercial electrification programs, and we're incredibly proud of that," Amazon global fleet and products director Ross Rachey said in a statement. "As we continue to grow and invest in California, we want to do so responsibly, so we're excited for customers in the Bay Area to see these vehicles cruising through their neighborhood."Amazon, which has backed Rivian via its $2 billion Climate Pledge Fund, agreed in September 2019 to purchase 100,000 electric vehicles from the start-up as part of its ambitious push to make Amazon's fleet run entirely on renewable energy. Each van has a range of 150 miles per charge.Since then, Amazon said, it has been operating thousands of electric vehicles worldwide. In 2020, it said it delivered more than 20 million packages using electric delivery vehicles across North America and Europe.To make the shift to electric vehicles, Amazon has redesigned its delivery stations, adding thousands of electric vehicle chargers. For now, Amazon said, the vehicles are being driven by Amazon employees who are specially trained to operate them.Amazon unveiled a version of the electric delivery vans last fall. They feature a boxier design, the familiar Prime branding and upgraded safety features like an advanced driver assist system and exterior cameras that give the driver a 360-degree view outside the vehicle.Amazon is still refining the design of its electric delivery vans before the start of production, which Rivian plans for the fourth quarter of this year.VIDEO6:4206:42Rivian CEO: We're ready to enter e-pickup raceFast Money

2021/03/18, REUTERS/Pascal RossignolAmazon will join companies like Twitter, Snap and Google's YouTube in pitching advertisers at the Interactive Advertising Bureau's NewFronts event.  The spring NewFronts are digital media's take on the traditional TV upfronts, when advertisers have traditionally committed a large amount of their yearly TV spending. During the NewFronts, online publishers, platforms and other companies host presentations and parties to show off their programming, audience data and tools to media buyers. This year's event will take place virtually from May 3 to May 6.Amazon's ad business has commanded a growing market share in the digital ad industry, a theme that appears likely to continue this year. An ad-buyer survey from Cowen in January said Amazon will be the leading market share gainer among major digital ads businesses in 2021 and 2022. The survey was based on responses from 52 senior U.S. ad buyers in December who represent $15 billion in U.S. ad spend.Amazon had been scheduled to make its NewFronts debut in 2020, but said it wouldn't be participating in the event as the Covid pandemic started to erupt in the U.S.This year's presentations include companies like YouTube, Roku, Twitter, TikTok and Snap, along with publishing world players like BuzzFeed, Condé Nast, BBC News and Vice Media Group. Other first-time players to the NewFronts will include A+E Networks, Entercom, Estrella Media, Penske Media and Vizio. Mainstay Hulu will not be part of this year's event; instead, it will be featured in parent company Disney's own events.The IAB said its 2020 event drew more than 14,000 brands, agencies and media buyers. This year's event promises to delve into how consumer behavior has transformed during the pandemic and how content creators have made programming across all video formats.  Amazon's growing ads businessAmazon's Q4 2020 earnings report showed the benefits of a rebound in advertising following a pandemic dip. Amazon's "other" category, which primarily consists of advertising, brought in $7.9 billion in revenue for the quarter, an increase of 64% from a year prior.Amazon may also benefit as advertising peers brace for upcoming Apple privacy changes that will impact their businesses. "We believe that AMZN is extremely well positioned to ride out [Apple's privacy] changes thanks to the transparency of its attribution and general high intent of platform purchases," Deutsche Bank analysts said last month. The e-commerce giant opened up about some of its initiatives at the IAB's annual leadership meeting last week. Its VP of Global Ad Sales Alan Moss said that with a slate of IMDb TV originals launching this year, it would be offering product integration and branded content opportunities to help advertisers "authentically align their brand with cultural moments and genre themes." Moss also discussed how Amazon plans to expand its podcast advertising. In another panel, the Amazon Studios COO and co-head of television Albert Cheng spoke about the growing prominence in the sale of goods directly through TV screens, Deadline reported last week. He said "T-commerce" is in its early days, but that Amazon is making progress there. For instance, Amazon has streamed Savage X Fenty shows and embedded those livestreams with buying opportunities. VIDEO2:2402:24With strong rebound in digital advertising, S4 Capital is moving fast with dealsSquawk Box Asia

2021/03/17, In this articleWFCWMTAMZNVIDEO6:3806:38Amazon is king of the retail rainforest, says Wells Fargo analystFast MoneyAmazon has surpassed Walmart as the No. 1 apparel retailer in the U.S. thanks in large part to the pandemic-fueled e-commerce boom, according to Wells Fargo research released Wednesday.Wells Fargo estimates that Amazon's apparel and footwear sales in the U.S. grew by roughly 15% in 2020 to more than $41 billion, which is 20% to 25% above rival Walmart."This represents highly impressive 11%-12% share of all apparel sold in the U.S. and 34%-35% share of all apparel sold online," Wells Fargo analysts Ike Boruchow and Tom Nikic wrote in a note. "We now estimate Amazon will surpass $45 billion in apparel/footwear sales in 2021."For years, Wall Street analysts have predicted Amazon will leapfrog Walmart to claim the top spot in the U.S. apparel market. Amazon found early success by offering a wide range of basics, but it has since expanded its fashion business. It now features a growing slate of name brands. The company also launched online luxury fashion shops last fall.Employees make preparations for a launch party at Amazon.com Inc.'s new fashion photography studio in the Shoreditch district of London, U.K.Simon Dawson | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesThe pandemic cemented Amazon's dominance in the retail space. Stuck-at-home consumers turned to the online retailer for essentials like toilet paper, as well as nonessentials such as office furniture and workout gear. Consumers also turned to Amazon for goods and services they might not have purchased from the company before the pandemic, like grocery delivery.Amazon now claims a 30% to 35% share of the online apparel and footwear market, Wells Fargo said. "To put this in perspective, Amazon sold almost 7x as much apparel/footwear as the second largest player online (Macy's)," the analysts added.Although Amazon has transformed into a top apparel player, Wells Fargo said the company could still make improvements to the shopping experience, like carrying more of the brands that consumers want. Amazon has turned off some brands in the past, and that could be hurting its ability to grow selection on the site, Wells Fargo said."Until Amazon becomes a platform that works with companies to elevate brands, rather than viewing the relationship as transactional, companies who are fiercely protective of their brands (e.g. Nike), will not sell to Amazon," the analysts said.In 2019, Nike grabbed headlines when it announced it would no longer sell its clothes and shoes directly to Amazon. Other brands — including Birkenstock and PopSockets — have also pulled out of Amazon in recent years, citing issues ranging from counterfeits to aggressive pricing tactics.Correction: This story was revised to correct that the analysis was by Wells Fargo.VIDEO3:2503:25Greater regulation could pose challenge for tech giants down the line: AnalystSquawk Box Europe

2021/03/30, In this articleTSLA8604.T-JPCSG.N-CHAMZNCNBC.com's Pippa Stevens brings you the day's top business news headlines. On today's show, Deirdre Bosa lays out the stakes as Amazon's union battle in Alabama enters its final stretch. Plus Leslie Picker explains the $20 billion blowup in the stock market that started with a massive margin call to one client with brokers at multiple investment banks.Amazon union vote enters final stretch in watershed moment for U.S. laborThe votes on whether to form a union at Amazon's sprawling Alabama fulfillment center are set to be reviewed starting on Tuesday, with momentum for future labor organizing at America's second-largest private employer hanging in the balance.An agent from the U.S. National Labor Relations Board will sift through ballots sent to more than 5,800 workers at Amazon's Bessemer, Alabama-based warehouse as part of a prolonged process expected to last days and spark legal challenges.Tallying votes might not begin until later this week or next, after both Amazon and the union check the eligibility of ballots cast, said a person familiar with the process. Subsequent procedures and objections could further forestall a certified result, the person said.How Archegos' $20 billion move to flee certain names led to banks' share prices tumblingThe woes that arose from Archegos Capital Management at the end of last week bled into Monday as a slew of big banks saw their share prices decline.Here's how the $20 billion blowup unfolded.U.S. media stocks ViacomCBS and Discovery experienced severe selling pressure on Friday, with each losing more than 27%.A few Chinese internet ADRs including Baidu, Tencent and Vipshop also suffered sell-offs of a similar magnitude last week.Tesla double-charged some customers for new cars, leaving them desperate for refund detailsLast week, after paying for brand-new Tesla electric cars, Southern California residents Tom Slattery, Christopher T. Lee and Clark Peterson told CNBC they were gobsmacked to find the company had charged them twice, taking tens of thousands of dollars from their bank accounts without authorization or warning, then giving them a frustrating runaround when they sought refunds.CNBC reviewed records including motor vehicle purchase agreements, correspondence with Tesla and bank statements to confirm their stories.Two other customers, whose identities are known to CNBC but who asked to remain anonymous for privacy reasons, said they also experienced duplicate debit charges from Tesla, leaving them in distress. One of them faces overdraft fees and looming finance charges on credit card bills due at the end of the month.

2021/03/30, An AWS Ground Station satellite antenna at one of the company's data center in Boardman, Oregon.AmazonAmazon Web Services announced the launch of a new space startup assistance program on Tuesday, with the tech giant partnering with U.K.-based venture firm Seraphim Capital on the project.The AWS Space Accelerator is a four-week business support program that will take place in June, AWS vice president of partners and program Sandy Carter wrote in a blog post.The accelerator will select 10 companies to participate, with startups receiving as much as $100,000 in "AWS Activate credit" – essentially funds to use for various parts of Amazon's cloud service. Startups will also receive mentoring during the accelerator, "from space domain and technical subject matter experts with deep experience working on AWS," the company said."Startups provide a catalyst for bold new experimentation in the space industry," AWS' Aerospace and Satellite division director Clint Crosier said in a statement. "We look forward to helping the first cohort of companies launch and grow through this new program."AWS established the Aerospace and Satellite unit last year, as the company identified a growing need for cloud-based support across the space industry.Applications for to join the AWS Space Accelerator open on Tuesday, with proposals due April 21.

2021/03/17, VIDEO4:2704:27Amazon to expand Amazon Care nationally for its workers, other employersSquawk on the StreetAmazon is rolling out its telehealth service known as Amazon Care for its employees in all 50 states starting this summer with plans to expand it to other employers later this year, the company announced Wednesday."Amazon Benefits has been the enterprise customer that we've been serving to date. Now, looking at other enterprises, understanding their needs, we think a lot of the needs are similar," Kristen Helton, director of Amazon Care, said.Amazon Care launched as a pilot program two years ago to provide convenient urgent care visits virtually for the company's employees in Washington state, with free telehealth consults and in-home visits for a fee from nurses for testing and vaccinations. The program has since expanded into more of a primary care service."We have developed the ability to treat chronic conditions … you can see the same provider, have a care team, so that that group of clinicians really gets to know you and I would say, we're also learning on the clinical side, we really need to give clinicians, the tools to provide excellent care," Helton said.Amazon will roll out the virtual care part of the program for its employees and other companies nationwide this year, but the added in-person services will initially be offered only in Washington state and near its new second headquarters in the Washington, D.C., metro area.The move comes two months after Amazon said it was winding down Haven, its joint venture with Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan. Haven had been touted three years ago as an incubator to improve employer health programs.In the interim, Amazon has developed and launched its own online pharmacy, after acquiring PillPack in 2018. Last year, the company partnered with employer health provider Crossover Health to launch in-person employee health clinics, which now serve Amazon workers across 17 sites in Texas, Arizona, Kentucky, California and Michigan.The pharmacy, the employee clinics and Amazon Care are run as independent health-care initiatives within Amazon. Asked whether she envisions the company putting some of the services together for other employers, Helton said she "won't speculate about how this will evolve." Insider reported the expansion earlier this month.Employer telehealth marketAmazon is taking aim at the employer market, following tremendous growth in telehealth during the Covid pandemic that has helped fuel a series of deals in the sector over the last six months.In October, Teladoc reached an $18 billion agreement to acquire diabetes management firm Livongo. Last month, Cigna's Evernorth division announced it will acquire virtual care platform MDLive for an undisclosed amount. This week, privately held telemedicine provider Dr. on Demand announced it is merging with Grand Rounds, which provides health-care navigation services.    "What we're hearing from employers is that … they're looking for platforms that can deliver a suite of services," explained analyst Charles Rhyee, managing director at Cowen & Co., adding that most telemedicine has been focused on urgent care, "not really connected to your overall health care. Virtual primary care is that next step."All three deals were focused on providing more integrated digital health services for employers as large companies increasingly look to make medical and mental health services more accessible both virtually and in person."I think what we've learned is that a hybrid model is probably what we're going to end up with; where sometimes we go to the doctor's office, when we need a procedure done, when we need imaging done, when we're not sure what's going on with you," said Dr. Bob Kocher, a partner at venture firm Venrock, who serves as a board observer at Dr. on Demand and Grand Rounds. "A lot of visits, in between, will be done virtually."Health insurers are also getting in on telehealth expansion. CVS Health is conducting a virtual primary care pilot with a large employer using its Minute Clinic service, while UnitedHealth Group's UnitedHealthcare unit launched its own employer virtual primary care service in January. Amazon is the new kid on the block in the employer market, but virtual primary care is also a developing business for its more established competitors which may even the playing field a bit.   "Health care is an incredibly large space, and there's lots of opportunity. We see there's room for more than one winner in the space," said Helton.Given Amazon's track record for winning big in retail, web services and entertainment, investors and its competitors in health care will be watching its moves closely.

2021/03/18, VIDEO5:3005:30Why Anthony Scaramucci makes the bull case for bitcoinSquawk BoxSkyBridge Capital founder Anthony Scaramucci believes bitcoin can move even higher over the long term and become a less volatile asset as adoption picks up. He likened his outlook on the digital cryptocurrency to shares of Amazon.Scaramucci made the comparison during an interview Thursday on CNBC's "Squawk Box." Co-host Andrew Ross Sorkin asked the hedge fund manager what would happen to the price if early bitcoin investors sell the digital currency because they can no longer generate outsized returns."Bitcoin is 12 years old. But if you bought Amazon after the 12th year, you got a 64x return on your money from 2009 to 2021," Scaramucci said, noting that Amazon's massive gains in its first 12 years did not preclude the stock from soaring in its next dozen years. Amazon shares have surged more than 3,600% from the company's IPO in May 1997 to May 2009."Amazon now, 20 years later, is trading with more stability. It got a very big pop because of the pandemic, but just take a look at its long-term chart, and I think that will happen to bitcoin," he said. "Once it fully scales, ... you're going to be looking at that situation and saying, 'OK, it's way less speculative.'"Bitcoin has experienced a meteoric rise since its creation in 2009 and in recent months. It traded around $57,800 per coin Thursday morning. Just six months ago, it was priced at roughly $11,000. Bitcoin's value by market cap has nearly doubled this year alone, according to CoinDesk data.The total supply of bitcoin is capped at 21 million. Roughly 18.66 million coins are in circulation, CoinDesk data shows. Proponents see bitcoin's predetermined supply limit as a reason why its price can continue to rise with more investors seeking ownership.Bitcoin has been prone to wild price swings throughout its history. In 2017, it rallied to trade at nearly $20,000 per coin, a record at the time. In 2018, however, bitcoin lost about 80% of its value in what's now known as the "crypto winter."Some bitcoin bulls say the current run is different due to increased institutional adoption.For example, companies like Tesla and Square have bought the digital coin with cash on their balance sheets; Mastercard intends to open its network to some cryptocurrencies later this year; and Morgan Stanley is set to become the first major U.S. bank to grant its wealth management clients access to bitcoin funds.Skeptics question whether bitcoin is an efficient means of transaction or even a durable store of value."As a collectible, it's gone up a lot, but it's not gone up at the right times," New York University finance professor Aswath Damodaran told CNBC on Tuesday. "In fact, last year, when stocks were collapsing, bitcoin went down even more. That's not what you want in a collectible."Damodaran, known as Wall Street's "Dean of Valuation" for his company analyses, stressed he's not opposed to the idea of cryptocurrencies. "I think there will be a good cryptocurrency. I just don't see how bitcoin can be it."Scaramucci, whose firm has a bitcoin fund, said the currency is still in a "transitory period," like Amazon shares years ago. However, he said some of bitcoin's fundamental characteristics — such as running on a distributed digital ledger known as a blockchain — have been key to its market cap skyrocketing."Bitcoin got to a $1 trillion faster than all those companies, primarily because it's decentralized, so now you're taking all that C-suite drama and all the politics associated with it, away from it," he said. "It's a fully scaling, monetary network and store of value and it's going to get there over the next 15 years."Scaramucci, who briefly served as former President Donald Trump's White House communications chief, told CNBC earlier this year he believes bitcoin will reach $100,000 per coin by the end of 2021.Disclaimer

2021/03/31, Tonal in-home fitness.Source: TonalThe at-home fitness start-up Tonal said Wednesday it has raised an additional $250 million in funding, valuing the business at $1.6 billion.That brings Tonal's total funding to $450 million. Participants in the Series E round include the investment firm Dragoneer, which led the round, along with Cobalt Capital, L Catterton and Sapphire Ventures.The company said it plans to use the fresh capital to accelerate its marketing efforts, to open more brick-and-mortar stores, and to invest in logistics and manufacturing to meet what it says is unprecedented demand. The funding also brings Tonal one step closer to an initial public offering, according to its CEO, who declined to offer a firm timeline on when that might take place."The first piece of this is really scaling the business and being able to capture all the demand that we have, and preparing the company for an IPO," Chief Executive Officer Aly Orady said. "There's still a lot of growth ahead of us, and that's going to require us to deploy money into different marketing channels, including of course retail."Tonal said its 2020 sales grew more than eight-times year over year, as customers looked for ways to build better workout routines at home during the Covid pandemic.Tonal's wall-mounted workout stations retail for $2,995. The company says it can offer users a total-body workout by generating up to 200 pounds of resistance, using an electromagnetic resistance engine instead of classic weights. It competes with other at-home fitness equipment manufacturers Peloton, Hydrow and Lululemon's Mirror.In early March, Tonal and Nordstrom announced a partnership that puts Tonal devices in 40 of Nordstrom's department stores, to help stir up interest around the brand."Physical touch is important to us," Orady said.Other prior Tonal investors include Amazon's Alexa Fund, tennis star Serena Williams and Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry.Tonal also announced Wednesday a slew of new hires across the business.It has named Shannon Crespin, previously an executive at Johnson & Johnson, as chief operations officer. Gregory de Gunzburg, who previously served as head of corporate strategy and development for NBCUniversal where he led the launch of Peacock, has been named chief strategy officer. Bryan James, who has held roles at Google and Apple, has landed the role of chief technology officer."We're building out the leadership team and making sure we have the ... team that can scale the business beyond an IPO," Orady said.Disclosure: NBCUniversal is CNBC's parent company.VIDEO5:4105:41Why retail companies are experiencing major inventory delays during the pandemicSquawk Box

2021/03/15, DigitalOcean CEO Yancey Spruill, left, speaks at the Web Summit in Lisbon, Portugal, on Nov. 6, 2019.Sam Barnes | Sportsfile for Web Summit | Getty ImagesThe market for cloud-computing infrastructure to power applications has grown immensely since Amazon introduced its first cloud services in 2006, but U.S. investors haven't had a great way of investing exclusively in cloud. That will change in the coming weeks when a company called DigitalOcean starts trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "DOCN."Buying shares of Amazon -- or Alibaba, Google, IBM, Microsoft or Oracle -- has meant getting a small percentage of exposure to the public cloud. DigitalOcean is different because it doesn't do anything else.The company will start out with a much lower valuation than those other companies. In a Monday update to the prospectus for its initial public offering, DigitalOcean said it expects to sell shares at $44 to $47 per share, which would give it a market cap of about $4.8 billion at the middle of the range. DigitalOcean also said Tiger Global and an entity tied to existing investor Access Industries want to buy up to $175 million in the company's shares at the time of the IPO.Unlike public cloud market leader Amazon Web Services, DigitalOcean is not profitable. It lost almost $44 million in 2020, compared with a $40 million loss in 2019. DigitalOcean is also growing more slowly than AWS, despite that AWS generates 142 times more revenue. AWS revenue in 2020 totaled $45.37 billion, up 29.5%, while DigitalOcean reported 25% revenue growth.That might be okay, because DigitalOcean has a specialty: Simplicity. It isn't overwhelming to new users, who wind up increasing the amount they spend on DigitalOcean services over time.Simplicity is one of the four principles the founders picked when DigitalOcean started in 2012. "We take infrastructure technology and make it simple across all aspects of the product experience," CEO Yancey Spruill, a former operating chief and finance chief at SendGrid, wrote in a letter to investors in the prospectus.A handful of productsSince 2006 AWS has introduced a wide swath of services for software developers to adopt, and its customer list has gotten long, with big names like Apple paying hundreds of millions per year.That's not DigitalOcean's path. It has just a handful of products, including customizable Linux-based virtual machines that it calls droplets, data-storage options, networking tools and three databases. Unlike on Amazon, there are no machine-learning services, deployment tools, database-migration technologies or media-transcoding systems. It maintains 6,000 tutorials designed to help people get going.DigitalOcean also tries to stay simple with pricing and the bills it sends each month to its nearly 600,000 customers. DigitalOcean took a swipe at the big public-cloud vendors in its prospectus, saying their products aren't intuitive enough for sole developers and small businesses and "suffer from near-infinite feature complexity and have opaque pricing and billing practices that are often accompanied by significant hidden costs." As a result, the company said, small businesses are often unable to enjoy the benefits of cloud computing."Companies frequently need dedicated employees, pricing analytics tools or even specialized consultants to understand how products are priced and how to manage their bills," it wrote. If DigitalOcean has found a sweet spot, it's with small businesses, rather than large enterprises, which the big clouds have been fighting over in the past few years. It's a self-service business that doesn't rely heavily on a large group of salespeople. In that way it will be like website-building company Wix and e-commerce software maker Shopify.The New York-based company also has foreign reach. Rather than touting S&P 500 clients in its prospectus, DigitalOcean showcases customers such as Bunnyshell of Romania, Cloudways of Malta, Jiji of Nigeria, Vidazoo of Israel and Whatfix of India. In 2020 38% of DigitalOcean's revenue came from North America; by comparison, 68% of Amazon's 2020 revenue came from the U.S.DigitalOcean has yet to take major share in the cloud infrastructure market, though, and some of its customers could end up switching to more comprehensive cloud providers as their needs evolve.But DigitalOcean is hopeful. In the prospectus the company said it expects more than 14 million small and medium-size businesses to be formed each year, and their founders don't necessarily come with sharp technical skills. "These individuals are able to leverage simple and reliable development tools and the widespread availability and significantly lower upfront cost of cloud computing to start companies," the company said.WATCH: Bessemer's Byron Deeter on the resurgence of cloud computing stocksVIDEO3:2403:24Bessemer's Byron Deeter on the resurgence of cloud computing stocksSquawk Alley

2021/03/30, The Nike logo is seen on the Nike store on February 22, 2021 in New York City.John Smith | Corbis News | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Tuesday:

2021/03/18, VIDEO1:2001:20NFL finalizes new 11-year media rights deal, Amazon nabs Thursday night gamesClosing BellThe National Football League has finalized its new 11-year media rights agreement with a pact that will run through 2033 and could be worth over $100 billion.The league announced Thursday it's renewing TV rights with all of its existing broadcast partners and adding Amazon Prime Video as an exclusive partner for its Thursday Night Football package. It's the first time a streaming service will carry a full package of games exclusively. Amazon is paying about $1 billion per year, according to people familiar with the matter. Amazon's deal runs 10 years and begins in 2023.ViacomCBS, Fox and Comcast (which owns NBCUniversal) are all paying more than $2 billion per year for their 11-year-long packages, while Disney (which owns ESPN and ABC) will pay around $2.7 billion annually, according to people familiar with the matter.  Using these numbers, the NFL's new agreement projects to be more than $100 billion -- the richest U.S. sports league media deal.The NFL declined to comment on the total amount of the agreements. ViacomCBS is paying $2.1 billion for its package and NBCUniversal is paying about $2 billion, the lowest of any of the partners, but the highest increase over its previous deal, the people said. NBCUniversal paid $1.1 billion for its previous package, including playoff games.Fox is also projected to pay over $2 billion in its new contact, but will save $660 million as it relinquishes the Thursday Night Football package. Morgan Stanley estimates that contact will be averaging $400 million in annual losses in 2023 when Fox's agreement expires.Disney is paying more and receiving more NFL content, including rights to exclusively air an international game each year, beginning in 2022, one of the people said.  In this pact, the ESPN network keeps the Monday Night Football package and also has rights to air two Super Bowls on its ABC network. Disney can stream all NFL games that air on ABC and ESPN on ESPN+, the league said. Disney will now carry 23 games instead of 17 in its previous deal. ABC will air three Monday Night Football games, which will not be double-headers with ESPN because the timing of the games will overlap, one of the people said. ABC will also carry two Saturday games the last week of the NFL season, which could turn into a new Week 18 if the NFL moves forward with adding a week. Disney will also receive a new divisional round playoff game, said the person."These new media deals will provide our fans even greater access to the games they love," said NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell in a statement. "We're proud to grow our partnerships with the most innovative media companies in the market. Along with our recently completed labor agreement with the NFLPA, these distribution agreements bring an unprecedented era of stability to the league and will permit us to continue to grow and improve our game.""NFL games are the most watched live programming in the United States, and this unprecedented Thursday Night Football package gives tens of millions of new and existing Prime members exclusive access to must-watch live football on Prime Video," said Mike Hopkins, Senior VP of Prime Video and Amazon Studios, in a statement.The league's National Football Conference (NFC) games will remain with Fox, and CBS Sports will continue to host American Football Conference (AFC) games and stream those contests on its Paramount+ service. NBCUniversal will keep the Sunday Night Football package and use its Peacock service to stream games.The NFL's Super Bowl rotation is as follows:CBS: 2023, 2027, 2031FOX: 2024, 2028, 2032NBC: 2025, 2029, 2033ESPN/ABC: 2026, 2030The NFL's Covid-19 Super Bowl in February attracted 96.4 million viewers watching the Tampa Bay Buccaneers beat the Kansas City Chiefs, 31-9. The game was the lowest watched Super Bowl since 2007 when the Indianapolis Colts played the Chicago Bears. That game attracted 93.1 million viewers, according to Octagon's media division data provided to CNBC.

2021/03/04, Peter Dering, CEO of San Francisco-based Peak Design, said his company's "Everyday Sling" bag became a target for Amazon to copy after it was the top-selling premium camera bag on the site "by a longshot."Camera gear maker Peak Design accused Amazon this week of copying one of its products.Peak Design has been selling an "Everyday Sling" bag on its site since 2017. Last October, an item with a strikingly similar design and available for one-third the price popped up on Amazon. Peter Dering, CEO of San Francisco-based Peak Design, said his company's "Everyday Sling" bag became a target for Amazon to copy after it was the top-selling premium camera bag on the site "by a longshot.""It feels like somewhere in Amazon there's a bell that goes off, which says 'OK, this one's going to be worth our time to go make the knockoff,'" Dering said in an interview. "And that sort of finally happened to us."Dering decided to go public with his concerns. On Wednesday, Peak Design released an ad, titled "A Tale of Two Slings: Peak Design and Amazon Basics," which co-stars Dering and pokes fun at Amazon's "copycat" product. Soon after the ad went live, Peak Design customers flooded Amazon's listing for the "Amazon Basics Everyday Sling" with negative ratings, enough that Amazon temporarily disabled reviews on the item. Representatives from Amazon didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Peak Design isn't the first company to question how the retail giant comes up with its own products. Allbirds co-CEO Joey Zwillinger in 2019 called out Amazon for releasing a knit shoe with "striking resemblances" to its own product. More recently, a Wall Street Journal investigation last April found that Amazon uses data from third-party sellers to help develop its private-label goods. The issue was also scrutinized at length in the House Judiciary antitrust subcommittee's sweeping 400-plug page report, released last October, which examined Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook's business practices.  Amazon's private-label business has grown steadily since it was launched in 2007. For many years, the company has offered a range of private-label goods, from phone chargers to microwaves and t-shirts, under the AmazonBasics branding. It also makes private-label products under other brand names. The company now has at least 111 private-label brands that offer 22,617 products, according to a Coresight Research report published last May. That's still a drop in the bucket compared with the rest of Amazon's sprawling marketplace, which offers millions of products. While private-label brands make up a fraction of Amazon's overall business, sellers and brands like Peak Design say they're frustrated that they're forced to compete with Amazon's private-label lines, especially when it comes to pricing.Peak Design is accusing Amazon of knocking off its "Everyday Sling," which first launched in 2017.Peak Design's "Everyday Sling" is priced at $99, while the "Amazon Basics Everyday Sling" costs $35.14. Dering said Amazon's ability to offer a version of its sling bag at such a discounted price "absolutely impacts our business in a pretty big way." Amazon changed the name of the bag to "Amazon Basics Camera Bag" after Peak Designs published its video.Amazon in October 2020 launched an "Everyday Sling" that Peak Design says bears a striking similarity to its own product."Certainly a percentage of buyers that were taking a look at the Peak Design 'Everyday Sling' saw the Amazon one next to it because they advertise heavily around it," Dering said. "So a customer is going to have that choice." It's common for grocery stores and department stores to develop their own brands and promote them to customers. Sellers and brands say what sets Amazon's behavior apart from other retailers is its ability to collect detailed, historical data from activity across the platform that it can use to its advantage.Amazon has the ability to "see everything about the demographic of the customer that likes this particular bag, which customers have purchased it, how many customers have searched and have not purchased, who clicked on a similar product so that they can serve a product next to it," said Jason Boyce, a former Amazon seller who is now a consultant to third-party merchants, in an interview. "So the amount of data that Amazon collects doesn't make things fair."Boyce was interviewed by lawmakers during the House antitrust subcommittee investigation. He has repeatedly raised concerns about Amazon's private-label business, after the retail giant launched a private-label bocce ball set that appeared strikingly similar to his, down to the "unique color scheme" designed by Boyce's brand.Amazon has previously contended that it has no incentive to abuse third-party sellers' trust because third-party sales account for more than half the company's overall sales, surpassing its own first-party business. The company also says while it uses aggregated data from merchants, it has policies in place that prohibit individual seller data from being used to inform its private-label strategy.However, the House antitrust subcommittee report and the Journal investigation pointed to loopholes in those policies, which may mean that aggregate sales data is effectively individual seller data when one seller is dominant.Sellers and brands like Peak Design are growing more emboldened to take public swipes at Amazon for what they believe are tactics putting pressure on their business.Dering said he considers Amazon Basics' look-alike sling to be infringing upon Peak Design's patented design for its "Everyday Sling." The company weighed filing a lawsuit, but ultimately decided to release the short ad, in the hopes that it would spark a public conversation about Amazon's "flippant copycatting.""I thought it was the perfect middle finger," Dering said. "I'm having a lot of fun with this. I would never have fun with a lawsuit." VIDEO3:2503:25Greater regulation could pose challenge for tech giants down the line: AnalystSquawk Box Europe

2021/03/17, Jason Gorevic, CEO, TeladocScott Mlyn | CNBCShares of Teladoc, a provider of virtual doctor visits, dipped as much as 8% Wednesday after Amazon announced it plans to roll out its telehealth service for its employees nationally.The company's stock closed down more than 4%.Amazon Care, which launched as a pilot program two years ago, will allow employees in all 50 states to access virtual urgent care visits and free telehealth consults, starting this summer. The company also plans to offer its health program to other employers nationwide.Telehealth has been among the massive growth stories of this past year, as consumers seek out alternatives to traditional brick-and-mortar doctor visits in an effort to slow the spread of Covid-19. That's led to growth and a jump in users for Teladoc, a leader in the space. Up until Wednesday's announcement, the company's stock was up more than 70% year over year.But Amazon's new venture could threaten Teladoc's services as it continues to roll out.Amazon also has a history of spooking investors when it comes to pushing into new spaces.Last November, the company sent shares of traditional pharmacy giants and GoodRx, a company that finds users prescription drugs at a discount, plunging after it launched Amazon Pharmacy. Additionally, when Amazon announced it was acquiring Whole Foods in 2017, stock in grocers and big box retailers also plummeted.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO2:0802:08Loop Capital sees $72B opportunity in health care, analyst explainsThe Exchange

2021/03/05, In this articleAMZNRally organized by Workers Assembly Against Racism in support of Amazon workers of warehouse in Bessemer, Alabama rights to unionize at Union Square across of Whole Foods Market owned by Amazon.Lev Radin | LightRocket | Getty ImagesA group of Democratic members of Congress traveled to an Amazon warehouse in Alabama on Friday to show support for workers who are in the midst of a closely watched union vote.Among the lawmakers who visited the Amazon facility in Bessemer, Alabama, were Reps. Andy Levin of Michigan, Jamaal Bowman of New York, Cori Bush of Missouri, Terri Sewell of Alabama and Nikema Williams of Georgia. Lawmakers met with a few workers from the facility, known as BHM1, before heading over to the warehouse."I want Amazon workers across the country to pay attention because you should be doing the same thing in your workplace," Bowman said Friday at a press briefing outside of RWDSU Mid-South Council's union hall in Birmingham, Alabama. "And we're not stopping with Amazon. This is Lyft, this is Uber, this is Walmart, this is Tesla — all the companies across this country that continue to be abusive and provide terrible work conditions for workers, we stand with you."At the press briefing, Bowman said the union campaign in Alabama demonstrates the need to put better worker protections in place at Amazon and other companies in the U.S. He described the working environment at Amazon as a "culture of abuse" and surveillance."If workers get out of line, they receive some form of a demerit and if you accumulate enough demerits, then you are fired from your job," Bowman said. "Are we dealing with machines or widgets, or are we dealing with human beings?"Earlier this month, close to 6,000 workers at the Bessmer facility began voting by mail on whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, kicking off the first major unionization effort within the company since 2014. Last November, workers at the Alabama facility notified the NLRB of their plans to hold a vote on whether to be represented by the RWDSU.The lawmakers' show of support comes just a few days after President Joe Biden on Sunday expressed solidarity with the Amazon workers attempting to unionize the Bessemer facility telling them to "make your voice heard." Biden didn't name Amazon specifically, but he made reference to "workers in Alabama."Several workers from the Bessemer Amazon facility also attended the briefing. Kevin Jackson, a BHM1 employee, said the union campaign is about ensuring Amazon workers have "a place at the table like everyone else.""We're here to say that we're not going to be intimidated by anyone trying to say they're going to fire us, due to what we want," Jackson said.Amazon worker Kevin Jackson speaks on the steps of the RWDSU Mid-South headquarters before a tour of a congressional delegation to a nearby Amazon plant to show their support for workers who will vote on whether to unionize, in Birmingham, Alabama, March 5, 2021.Dustin Chambers | ReutersAmazon has previously said it respects workers' right to join a union, but also that its workers don't need a union to come between them and the company. Amazon has made its position on the union campaign clear to workers at the Bessemer facility, by holding mandatory meetings stating the case against unionizing and setting up a website urging workers to "do it without dues."In a statement, Amazon spokesperson Heather Knox encouraged the lawmakers to visit one of the company's fulfillment centers to observe the working conditions there."We hope these members of Congress will spend this same amount of energy on raising the minimum wage to $15 per hour -- as Amazon did for all of our employees in 2018," Knox said in a statement. "We're proud to pay more than double the federal minimum wage, while also offering comprehensive benefits, paid time off, and short- and long-term career growth — all in a safe and modern work environment."VIDEO4:5404:54Amazon union vote underway in Alabama warehouseThe Exchange

2021/03/12, Senate Foreign Relations Committee member Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., questions witnesses during a hearing about Venezuela on Aug. 4, 2020.Chip Somodevilla | Getty ImagesRepublican Sen. Marco Rubio on Friday sided with Amazon workers in Alabama who are in the midst of organizing their warehouse, lending bipartisan support behind the closely watched union vote.In an op-ed in USA Today, Rubio asserted that Amazon has "waged a war against working-class values" and is "looking to crush the union vote" at an Amazon warehouse in Bessemer, Alabama."The days of conservatives being taken for granted by the business community are over," Rubio wrote. "Here's my standard: When the conflict is between working Americans and a company whose leadership has decided to wage culture war against working-class values, the choice is easy — I support the workers. And that's why I stand with those at Amazon's Bessemer warehouse today."Last month, close to 6,000 workers at Amazon's Bessemer warehouse began voting by mail on whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, kicking off the first major unionization effort within the company since 2014. Workers at the Alabama facility notified the National Labor Relations Board last November of their plans to hold a vote on whether to be represented by the RWDSU.Ballots were sent out to employees on Feb. 8 and they must be received by the NLRB's regional office by March 29. Counting will begin the following day.The endorsement from Rubio, a Florida Republican, signifies there is bipartisan backing behind the union campaign in Bessemer. Last week, a group of Democratic members of Congress traveled to the Bessemer warehouse to support the union vote. President Joe Biden has also expressed solidarity with the Amazon workers, telling them to "make your voice heard."While Rubio endorsed the Amazon union drive, he still expressed skepticism toward unions, contending "adversarial relations" between labor and management can cause American industry to "lose ground to foreign competition."In a statement, Union President Stuart Appelbaum thanked Rubio for expressing his support for the union drive."Senator Rubio's support demonstrates that the best way for working people to achieve dignity and respect in the workplace is through unionization," Appelbaum said. "This should not be a partisan issue."Representatives from Amazon didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.Amazon has previously said it respects workers' right to join a union, but also that its workers don't need a union to come between them and the company. It has held mandatory meetings with workers stating the case against unionizing and set up a website urging workers to "do it without dues."VIDEO4:5404:54Amazon union vote underway in Alabama warehouseThe Exchange

2021/03/04, Tampa Bay Buccaneers Tight End Rob Gronkowski (87) celebrates after scoring a touchdown in the first quarter during Super Bowl LV between the Kansas City Chiefs and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on February 07, 2021, at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, FL.Cliff Welch | Icon Sportswire | Getty ImagesAmazon has its eyes set on being more than just a website to stock up on phone chargers and paper towels and stream the latest episode of "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel."Amazon is in talks with the National Football League to carry Thursday night games exclusively starting in 2023, CNBC reported on Thursday. As part of the agreement, Amazon would be responsible for the production costs and the games would still be broadcast on local TV in home markets of each of the teams playing. Winning the exclusive streaming rights would mark Amazon's most aggressive push yet into sports content. It also has the potential to pump even greater value into Amazon's Prime Video platform, while serving as an added perk for its Prime subscription program, which now boasts more than 150 million paid members around the world.For Amazon, its streaming video service has always served a greater purpose than being just a tool to compete against streaming rivals such as Netflix and Hulu.Prime Video is part of Amazon's much-lauded "flywheel" of compelling consumer offerings. The idea is that Prime Video will entice more people to become part of its Prime subscription service, which costs $119 a year, leading to more engagement and more purchases on the site. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos laid out succinctly why Prime Video is a good business model for the company in a 2016 interview with Recode: "From a business POV for us, we get to monetize that content in an unusual way. When we win a Golden Globe, it helps us sell more shoes."Sports content and NFL games in particular beef up that value proposition for existing and would-be Prime subscribers. Sports content could also lure the rapidly accelerating share of cord-cutters away from other services.The company already has a service called Amazon Channels, which lets customers pick and choose the channels they want to subscribe to, such as Starz and HBO, without having to sign up for a bundle of programs or enter a contract. Inking a deal with the NFL could make the Amazon Channels service even stickier by helping it stand out from similar offerings that don't offer sports. Longer term, if Amazon succeeds in carrying the NFL games exclusively, which would mean taking them off traditional TV, it could serve as a winning pitch for advertisers. Amazon possesses vast amounts of consumer data, from user interactions with devices linked to its vast Alexa ecosystem to the millions of purchases on its e-commerce site. Amazon has visibility into not only what shoppers are searching for and buying but also which ads they click on and whether they purchased an item after viewing an ad. So it can assure brands that their advertisements get in front of the right people. Advertising has rapidly transformed into a key profit engine for Amazon's overall business. Amazon is predicted to be the leading share gainer among the dominant digital ads businesses in 2021 and 2022, with ad revenues rising to $85.2 billion by 2026, up from a projected $26.1 billion in 2021, according to a Cowen survey released in January.VIDEO1:2201:22NFL digital rights are Amazon's to win, says LightShed's Rich GreenfieldSquawk Box

2021/03/08, Katie SchoolovAmazon has taken a minority stake in Air Transport Services Group, an air freight partner that operates a significant share of the company's fast-growing aviation logistics unit.Amazon exercised warrants in ATSG that will allow it to acquire about 13.5 million shares in the cargo airline at an exercise price of $9.73 per share, or more than $131.9 million, ATSG said in an SEC filing Monday. As part of a separate agreement, Amazon also purchased approximately 865,000 shares of ATSG, with no cash exchanging hands, the filing states.Shares in ATSG closed up 5.5% on Monday. Amazon shares fell 1.6%. Amazon has owned warrants in ATSG since 2016. It was granted warrants as part of an agreement to lease 20 Boeing 767s from ATSG, one of its earliest deals with a cargo company to build out its burgeoning air fleet. Amazon also owns warrants to buy a minority stake in rival carrier Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings.Amazon's air fleet, launched in 2016, is a critical part of its push to provide one- and two-day delivery. The company still relies on ATSG and Atlas Air to fly a large portion of its packages, but it has started to bring some air cargo operations in house, lending further credence to the belief that Amazon Air could one day rival FedEx and UPS.In a first for the company, Amazon in January purchased 11 used Boeing 767-300 jets from Delta and WestJet. The company is scheduled to lift the veil later this year on its $1.5 billion air hub in northern Kentucky, which has capacity for 100 Amazon-branded planes and is expected to handle about 200 flights per day.VIDEO3:2503:25Greater regulation could pose challenge for tech giants down the line: AnalystSquawk Box Europe

2021/03/12, In this articleORCLAMZNSAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA - SEPTEMBER 16: Oracle chairman of the board and chief technology officer Larry Ellison delivers a keynote address during the 2019 Oracle OpenWorld on September 16, 2019 in San Francisco, California. Oracle chairman of the board and chief technology officer Larry Ellison kicked off the 2019 Oracle OpenWorld with a keynote address. The annual convention runs through September 19.Justin Sullivan | Getty ImagesAmazon is the clear cloud leader on at least two fronts.It generates more revenue from cloud infrastructure services than any other company.It also outspends competitors on the underlying gear that's needed to deliver those services.Google parent Alphabet and Microsoft are close behind when it comes to spending, with Alphabet a little higher as it attempts to surpass Microsoft as the number-two cloud provider by market share and revenue.Then there are the laggards. IBM and Oracle don't disclose revenue from their public clouds, but they do disclose total capital expenditures. That gives a sense of the scope of investment the companies are making up front to deliver these fast-growing services.These investments are paltry compared with competitors. In the past four quarters, IBM and Oracle's combined capital expenditures total less than one-quarter Microsoft. Amazon has spent seven times as much.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsOn Oracle's latest earnings call Wednesday, CEO Safra Catz told analysts that Oracle plans a 131% increase in quarterly capital expenditures, compared with a 5% increase in the previous quarter."We continue to land many new customers, including ISVs, and we have some very large users coming online shortly that will require significant amounts of capacity," she said.For at least the past two quarters, Oracle has also run into capacity issues in the cloud. Additional spending could solve that problem. Oracle Chairman Larry Ellison said in December that the company was building cloud data centers as fast as it could.It's a big deal for Oracle to forecast $1 billion in capital expenditures. But in the context of other companies, it's not so impressive."They're $100 billion behind," said Charles Fitzgerald, a former Microsoft general manager who has written about capital expenditures on his blog Platformonomics. "Adding $1 billion in incremental capex -- that's 1% of the gap they have to fill." Amazon, Google and Microsoft together had more than $90 billion in capital expenditures in 2020.Amazon had higher capital expenditures than any other company in the S&P 500 in the most recent fiscal year, according to FactSet data. The company reported $35 billion in 2020 cash capital expenditures, as well as almost $12 billion in property and equipment acquired under finance leases and another $2 billion in property and equipment acquired under build-to-suit arrangements. (Partly because the Amazon Web Services business has been so profitable, Amazon has accumulated $84 billion in cash, equivalents and marketable securities to work with. Oracle has around $36 billion.)To be sure, not all of that money went to AWS. The company said in its most recent annual report that capital expenditures "primarily reflect investments in additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations and in support of continued business growth in technology infrastructure (the majority of which is to support AWS)." And the acceleration in Amazon's capital spending coincides with a spike in revenue growth from Amazon's online stores, which consumers flocked to during the coronavirus pandemic.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsEven setting aside Amazon's retail operations, Amazon, Google and Microsoft all run popular web applications for consumers -- think Google's YouTube and Microsoft's Xbox Live -- and capital expenditures enable those services.IBM and Oracle don't have such heavily used properties to justify additional capital spending, although IBM does own the Weather Channel's mobile app.If a company isn't going to pour money into operating and capital expenditures or make acquisitions, it could always return cash to investors. IBM and Oracle have done that for years, and on Wednesday Oracle doubled down, announcing a 33% bump to its quarterly dividend."While we commend the capital returns to the shareholders via buybacks and a higher dividend, we think F3Q:2021 results are unlikely to change the current narrative on Oracle, which is that the stock is cheap but the company is growth-challenged from multifaceted headwinds across the infrastructure business, and prioritizing capital returns over organic/inorganic R&D, wrote Oppenheimer's Brian Schwartz and Chad Schoening in a note to clients on Thursday. The firm has the equivalent of a hold rating on Oracle stock.WATCH: Here's what these investors are looking at in Oracle's earningsVIDEO3:2603:26Here's what these investors are looking at in Oracle's earningsSquawk Alley

2021/03/17, In this articleAMZNAmazon CEO Jeff BezosAlex Wong | Getty ImagesAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos, the world's wealthiest person, is urging lawmakers to pass immigration reform and thanked members of Congress for bringing a bill to the floor that would create a path to citizenship for millions of immigrants known as "Dreamers."In an Instagram post on Wednesday, Bezos wrote that his father came to the U.S. from Cuba alone at the age of 16 and succeeded because of "grit, determination, and the support and kindness" of Americans."I'm hopeful that policymakers will come together to create a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers and prioritize more commonsense immigration reforms like reducing the green card backlog," Bezos wrote. "Families across America deserve this."The American Dream and Promise Act is one of two immigration reform bills Democrats are expected to push forward this week. Immigration has been a highly partisan issue for years, and Democrats face a tall task getting anything passed. They have a narrow majority in the House and only control the Senate because Vice President Kamala Harris can break a 50-50 tie.Bezos was an outspoken critic of the Trump administration's immigration policies. Following the Muslim ban in 2017, he told employees that Amazon was considering legal options and said "this executive order is one we do not support."Here's the text of Bezos's Instagram post:"I want to thank the Congressional leaders who will bring Dreamers legislation to the House floor tomorrow. My dad was a "Dreamer" before there was such a thing. He was 16 when he came to America, all by himself, from Cuba. He didn't speak English and didn't have an easy path. What he did have was grit, determination, and the support and kindness of people here in the U.S. who helped him. He received a scholarship to college in Albuquerque, where he met my mom. On behalf of my dad and families like mine, I'm hopeful that policymakers will come together to create a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers and prioritize more commonsense immigration reforms like reducing the green card backlog. Families across America deserve this."

2021/03/17, In this articleAMZNAmazon's redesigned Echo Dots Kids EditionAmanda Ringstad, AmazonThe Amazon Alexa voice assistant on your Amazon Echo can whisper. And you can also limit how much it says when you talk to it.I'm finding it useful at home with a baby in the house, when I don't need Alexa saying "OK" every time I turn off the lights, or when I need Alexa to be quieter when I'm asking about the weather at night.There are two modes you need to turn on: Brief Mode and Whisper Mode, and they're really easy to do.How to turn on Alexa Brief Mode and Whisper ModeTo turn on Brief Mode, which makes Alexa talk less and removes things such as confirmations for when you ask it to do something, just say "Alexa, turn on Brief Mode."Or, you can do this if you're not near your Echo:Open the Alexa app on your iPhone or Android phone.Tap "More" on the bottom right of the screen.Choose "Settings."Select "Voice Responses."Turn on "Brief Mode."While you're at it, you might want to turn off Alexa's suggestions that you buy stuff. It just did that while I was writing this guide, asking if I wanted suggestions for funny gifts. No, thanks.To turn off the purchase suggestions, do this:Open the Alexa app on your iPhone or Android phone.Choose "Settings."Tap "Notifications."Select "Amazon Shopping."Turn off the option to "receive personalized recommendations and deals based on your shopping activity."Also turn off "requests to rate products you've purchased" if you don't want those messages, either.Turn off the option to receive notifications for "Order Updates (Inc. Subscribe & Save.)" if you don't want messages about saving money by subscribing for monthly deliveries.Finally, there's Whisper Mode. The easiest way to turn that on is to simply whisper to Alexa. Say something, like "What's the weather," but whisper it instead of speaking. Alexa will respond in a whisper.That's it!VIDEO2:2702:27Amazon and Google are becoming omnipresent whether you like it or notTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/03/04, In this articleAMZNJeff Bezos, founder of AmazonKatherine Taylor | ReutersAmazon wants to be the National Football League's exclusive producer of Thursday games starting in 2023, but the NFL may decide to keep certain games on the NFL Network and take less money from Amazon, according to people familiar with the matter.Amazon is in talks with the league to pay about $1 billion for an entire season's worth of exclusive games, outside of the local TV markets of the two teams playing, said the people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private. The talks are ongoing and no decision has been made, said the people.In a new agreement, Amazon would be responsible for all the production costs and would still need to pay a local broadcaster to produce the game for home markets, as the NFL wants the Thursday night games to be broadcast on local TV in each of the participating teams' home markets.VIDEO2:3302:33Jim Cramer on Amazon possibly acquiring rights to stream NFL gamesSquawk on the StreetThe NFL Network, which is usually packaged as part of expensive pay-TV bundles, has requirements with pay-TV distributors to carry a certain number of games exclusively. The Wall Street Journal, which previously reported Amazon's interest, reported Wednesday that the NFL Network's deals require it to broadcast five games exclusively. With the NFL set to add an 18th week, the league could conceivably give the NFL Network enough Saturday games and other carveouts to hit the cable network's limits without dipping into Thursday, one of the people said.Still, the NFL may decide propping up NFL Network's value is a higher priority than giving Amazon a full slate of Thursday games. The league is still considering proposals to simulcast Amazon's Thursday games on the NFL Network or to split Thursday's games between Amazon and the NFL Network, said two of the people.Amazon won't pay anywhere near $1 billion for a full package of games that aren't entirely exclusive, said the people. Amazon is open to an arrangement where it gets branded games that are simulcast on NFL Network for less money, the people said. It's also open to a package where it gets fewer exclusive games for less money."This is a pretty watershed event for the TV industry," LightShed analyst Rich Greenfield said on CNBC today. "The fact that now you can get Thursday night games without having any local television — no antenna will work if you're outside of the home markets."The deal would build on Amazon's three-year deal with the NFL to broadcast 12 Thursday games in the 2020, 2021 and 2022 seasons on its Prime Video streaming service. That deal allows Amazon to broadcast one game exclusively each season. This past year, it was a Week 16 game between the Arizona Cardinals and the San Francisco 49ers. Fox's Thursday night football deal runs out in 2022 and won't be bought out early, according to people familiar with the matter.The NFL has been cautious about handing over broadcast rights to streaming services. The league is close to securing agreements with its current TV partners — Disney, which owns ESPN and ABC; ViacomCBS; Comcast's NBCUniversal, and Fox — for Sunday and Monday night packages.Still, streaming is becoming the dominant form of viewing for millions of Americans and can have global reach, unlike traditional pay TV. Several pay-TV distributors have inked deals with Amazon Prime Video to make its programming available on set-top boxes, further limiting friction for the tens of millions of Americans who still pay for linear pay-TV bundles from operators such as Comcast and AT&T.Disclosure: Comcast owns NBCUniversal, which is the parent company of CNBC.

2021/02/28, Amazon CamperForce, launched in 2008, recruits RVers and vandwellers from all corners of the country to work for months at a time during the peak holiday shopping season.Shay Martinez-MachenIn 2017, Shay Martinez-Machen was having an identity crisis. She was pregnant with her son, and the private ambulance company she'd worked at for a decade went bankrupt, suddenly leaving her without a home or a job."I went from corporate America to a stay-at-home mom overnight," Martinez-Machen, 33, said in an interview. "I didn't know who I was."Inspired by her parents, who had become "full-time nomads," Martinez-Machen, her wife America, and their two kids decided to hit the road in an RV. That summer vacation has since turned into a years-long lifestyle traveling around the country, picking up temporary jobs for months at a time.But each year since 2017, they've spent a few months working for one of the largest employers in the United States: Amazon.Shay Martinez-Machen and her wife America Martinez live in an RV with their two children.Shay Martinez-MachenMartinez-Machen and her wife are among hundreds of Americans who work at Amazon three months out of the year as part of the company's CamperForce program. Launched in 2008, CamperForce recruits RVers and van-dwellers for temporary jobs to shore up its workforce during the busy holiday shopping period. While CamperForce has been around for more than a decade, the program has been cast into the spotlight after it was featured in the Golden Globe-nominated film "Nomadland."The movie, based on a 2017 book by Jessica Bruder, stars Frances McDormand as Fern, who lives a transient life on the road in her van, traveling from one job to the next, including as an Amazon warehouse worker in Nevada. Fern picks and packs Prime orders before heading back to her passenger van, where she folds laundry and cooks ramen noodles on a hot plate. The scenes were filmed in a real fulfillment center in Fernley, Nevada, which has since closed and been moved to Reno, according Bob Wells, 65, a real-life nomad who plays himself in "Nomadland."  The CamperForce experience depicted in "Nomadland" is a fairly realistic portrayal of what Martinez-Machen and others experience each year. CamperForce draws nomads from all corners of the country, many of them elderly, but increasingly younger and with families in tow, to a growing number of Amazon warehouses in Arizona, Kentucky, Nevada, Oregon, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia, among other states. Only a handful of Amazon warehouses participated in the CamperForce program in its early days. This year, Amazon will offer CamperForce positions at 27 facilities. Just like the rest of Amazon's hundreds of thousands of warehouse workers, CamperForce employees work 10- to 12-hour shifts inside sprawling fulfillment centers, packing, picking, stowing and receiving packages. They earn $15 an hour plus overtime, paid out in weekly paychecks, plus an additional $550 stipend to cover some of the cost of a nearby campsite with RV hookups to electricity and water. They can also get an "assignment completion bonus" at the end of the season that pays 50 cents for every regular hour worked and $1.00 for every overtime hour worked, according to a promotional video posted by Amazon. Many of them sport t-shirts, lanyards and other gear with the CamperForce logo — a roving RV with Amazon's famous smile.Workers can also get access to medical and prescription benefits after 90 days, but depending on the length of their position, some workers may not be eligible. Amazon said it created the CamperForce program as a flexible work option for RVers during peak season. Many CamperForce employees "return year-after-year" to work at Amazon, Amazon spokesperson Andre Woodson told CNBC in a statement. "We are proud of our innovative CamperForce program and the opportunities it offers for individuals to combine earning extra money during the holiday season with RV camping," Woodson said. 'There's this impression that we're homeless'Picking up work at Amazon is usually one stop on the typical jobs circuit for traveling laborers, often referred to as "workampers," Wells said in an interview."You can be a campground host in the summer. When that's over, you leave almost immediately and you go and work the beet harvest for three weeks," he said. "Then from there you go to Amazon."Bob Wells, 65, plays himself in Nomadland, which stars Frances McDormand and depicts her as a van-dweller working various jobs on the road, including at an Amazon warehouse.Bob WellsWells, who began living in a van in 1995, has never worked at Amazon despite all of his years on the road. But he has met many nomads, often elderly, who have relied on CamperForce for temporary employment. "It's hard work. No one would question that," Wells said. "You're on your feet 10 hours a day and then with mandatory overtime it's 12 hours a day. For old hips, knees and elbows, that's hard."Wells moved into a box van with very little money after going through a divorce. Although it was a traumatic transition, he disagrees with the idea that financial need is the main reason nomads take to a life on the road. Once many nomads finish the six-month job circuit, they spend time traveling. "You've got the rest of the year that's yours," he said.Martinez-Machen said she often felt like full-time Amazon warehouse workers didn't understand what the CamperForce program was about. Some of her coworkers thought that CamperForce employees are "all sitting around a campfire singing Kumbaya," Martinez-Machen said."There was this impression that we're homeless and we're transients and we don't have a safe place to go home to," Martinez-Machen said. "But my kids are here with me. My house is here. I have a kitchen, a bathroom, a bed and a heater."Shay Martinez-Machen and her wife have worked several seasons as part of Amazon's CamperForce program, which operates out of several warehouses across the U.S.Shay Martinez-MachenIn the workamper community, CamperForce jobs are often in high demand, with positions often filling up within weeks after they're posted online, workers told CNBC. But it's definitely tough work.Ryan Ginther said he's unsure if he'd pick up seasonal work at Amazon again. Ginther worked the night shift last December as part of the CamperForce program at an Amazon warehouse in Troutdale, Oregon.He would head to work around 6:15 p.m. and "work through the night" until about 6:00 in the morning, said Ginther, who lives in an RV with his wife, Summer, and their pet pug. "That was something I don't really want to do again," he said."It was such long shifts and then it was a 30 minute commute either way," Summer Ginther said. "We didn't see each other at all."Ginther said he had some experience doing physical labor before he joined Amazon, but had never worked in a warehouse before. "I didn't know what to expect going in, but eventually found the job pretty easy," he added.Ryan Ginther and his wife Summer live full time on the road in their RV. Ryan Ginther has worked at an Amazon warehouse as part of the CamperForce program, which recruits RVers for seasonal jobs.Summer GintherFor Martinez-Machen, the transition from managing 150 employees to living on the road and working in a warehouse was much more dramatic. But five years on, Martinez-Machen said she and her wife have adapted to the workamper cycle of seasonal jobs, with Amazon serving as the couple's "sole source of income and our plans for the fall and winter every single year.""We've gone back, regardless of the complaints and the sore feet and everything else that comes along with it," Martinez-Machen said. "I think that's a common experience."Martinez-Machen said she often crosses paths with CamperForce workers who, even though they had a rough time at Amazon, will still return the following season at a site in another state."There are people who say, 'I hate this place, I don't want to come back,'" she said. "And then at the end of it, they'll say, 'Well, where are you going next year? I'll see you there.'"VIDEO0:2800:28Andy Jassy to become Amazon CEO, Jeff Bezos to become executive chairmanClosing Bell

2021/03/25, In this articlePALLBCDA Deliveroo courier rides along Regent Street delivering takeaway food in central London during Covid-19 Tier 4 restrictions.Pietro Recchia | SOPA Images | LightRocket via Getty ImagesLONDON – Deliveroo's stock market listing is at risk of being tarnished somewhat by investors who are concerned about how the company treats its couriers.The Amazon-backed company is hoping to raise £1 billion ($1.37 billion) when it lists on the London Stock Exchange on April 7, possibly achieving a valuation of up to £8.8 billion in the process. It's set to be the biggest initial public offering in Britain since Glencore in 2011.However, the U.K.'s largest fund manager, Legal and General Investment Management, which manages over £1.3 trillion in assets, said it probably won't be involved. It cited concerns around the gig economy that Deliveroo operates in and the company's share ownership structure, which gives CEO Will Shu over 50% of the voting rights."We are unlikely to participate in the IPO via our active or index funds," a spokesperson for Legal and General told CNBC on Friday."We see increasing signs of countries and governments reviewing the gig economy status," they added. "We take our role as a responsible steward of our clients' capital very seriously and engage with a number of companies in this sector on ESG concerns, like the rights of employees and proposed share class structures."Two of the U.K.'s largest asset managers also said this week that they won't buy Deliveroo shares.Aberdeen Standard and Aviva, which manage over £800 billion between them, said they're concerned about how Deliveroo treats its riders."As long-term investors, we're looking to invest in businesses that aren't just profitable, but are sustainable – employee rights and employee engagement are an important part of that," an Aberdeen Standard spokesperson told CNBC."Our clients' expectations of how we incorporate ESG (environmental, social and corporate governance) into our decision making have changed hugely over the last decade and so we feel our clients are supportive of our approach. We will not be taking part in the Deliveroo IPO as we are concerned about the sustainability of the business model, including but not limited to its employment practices, and also the broader governance of the business." Andrew Millington, head of U.K. equities at Aberdeen Standard, told the BBC's "Today" program on Thursday that Deliveroo's worker conditions are a "red flag," adding that Aberdeen Standard's decision is similar to its recent move to sell off shares in clothing retailer Boohoo, which has been accused of worker exploitation.Aviva declined to comment but it referred CNBC to comments made by David Cumming, Aviva's equities chief investment officer, to the BBC Thursday."A lot of employers could make a massive difference to workers' lives if they guaranteed working hours or a living wage, and how companies behave is becoming more important," said Cumming, before pointing out that Deliveroo riders don't get basic rights. "We won't be investing in Deliveroo for a number of reasons but that is one of them."M&G Investments is also planning to skip on the IPO. Rupert Krefting, head of corporate finance and stewardship at M&G, said: "We still see risks to the sustainability of its business model for long term investors. This is largely driven by the company's reliance on gig-economy workers in the U.K. as informal employment contracts potentially fall short in offering the value, job security and benefits of full employment."Deliveroo's narrow profit margins could be at risk if it is required to change its rider benefits, Krefting added.A spokesperson for Deliveroo told CNBC that riders have the "freedom" to choose when they work and that they can work for multiple apps at the same time, including rival platforms like Uber Eats. They added that there's strong investor interest in the upcoming IPO.Deliveroo's riders are technically self-employed, so they're not eligible for vacation days and sick pay. They're also not entitled to the national minimum wage.VIDEO1:4901:49Deliveroo CEO welcomes competition after restaurants try to outmaneuver his appSquawk Box EuropeWhile Aberdeen Standard and Aviva are reluctant to invest, many big names have already bought shares in Deliveroo. Amazon led a $575 million investment round into the company in 2019 and today it owns a 15.8% stake in Deliveroo. Venture capital firms including Index Ventures, DST Global, and Accel Partners also hold shares in the company.A Deliveroo spokesperson told CNBC that the company is "proud to provide work for 50,000 riders" across the U.K."There has been a strong investor interest in our planned IPO and we are already backed by some of the most respected global tech investors," they said."Deliveroo riders are self-employed because this gives them the freedom to choose when and where to work. We are confident in our business model, which has been upheld by U.K. courts three times, including the High Court twice."Gig economy shake upCumming noted that there's an element of risk associated with Deliveroo's IPO in case the legislation changes and Deliveroo has to reclassify its riders as workers.Uber was forced to do this last week after a Supreme Court ruling in Britain. Bank of America estimates that Uber's U.K. employment rights setback could cost the firm a total of more than $500 million.Deliveroo has allocated more than £112 million to cover the potential legal costs relating to the employment status of its riders and warned potential investors of the risk of litigation worldwide.The Independent Workers' Union of Great Britain said on Thursday that many Deliveroo riders earn less than the £8.72 minimum wage, with some taking home as little as £2 an hour."These unverifiable, misleading claims from a fringe organisation who claim to have spoken with 0.6% of Deliveroo riders should not be taken seriously," a Deliveroo spokesperson said. "Riders in the U.K. are paid for each delivery they choose to complete and earn £13 per hour on average at our busiest times. We communicate with thousands of riders every week and satisfaction is currently at an all-time high."

2021/03/19, VIDEO4:2404:24NFL chief media officer on Amazon's Thursday Night Football dealSquawk AlleyNFL executive Brian Rolapp told CNBC on Friday the league's new blockbuster media deal offers a chance to enhance the viewing experience for fans through digital streaming.The broadcast pact features Amazon Prime Video as the exclusive provider of Thursday Night Football games beginning in 2023, the first all-digital package in the league's history. Four other media-rights holders — ViacomCBS, Fox, NBCUniversal parent Comcast and ESPN owner Disney — all have the ability to broadcast their respective games on their various streaming platforms."I think the [streaming] experiences will be different," Rolapp, the NFL's chief media and business officer, said on "Squawk Alley." "What they will be, I think, remains to be seen, but the underlying rights of these deals provide for that type of innovation, which I think we're excited to see and was really part of these discussions. Nobody just wanted to put television on the internet."ViacomCBS' slate of games can air on Paramount+, while NBC can use its Peacock service to stream its contests. Fox's agreement permits it to show NFL content on Tubi, its ad-supported streaming platform. Disney, which also obtained rights to broadcast two Super Bowls on ABC, will be able to simulcast its games on ESPN+."I think with these partners, you'll see them take advantage of all the different things that a digital technology allows you to do," Rolapp said. "There could be developed interactive features. It clearly can change advertising, because once you have a digital platform, the targeting and the interactivity of that advertising can certainly change, something you can't get on television."Rolapp said the agreement — which CNBC estimates could be worth more than $100 billion — does not spell the end of linear TV just because digital takes a bigger focus. "If you look at this contract, I think we've allocated all of our games to television distribution in some shape or form," he said, noting Amazon's Thursday contests will still air on TV in the local markets of the teams playing."I think streaming will certainly provide reach as people spend more and more time on digital. But if we're getting to the end of these deals and all we're doing is putting television on the internet, I think we've missed an opportunity," Rolapp said, regarding the new media agreements that start in 2023 and extend through the 2033 season.One piece of the NFL media rights that was not included in Thursday's announcement was DirecTV's Sunday Ticket. AT&T currently owns DirecTV, but last month the company announced a deal with TPG to spin it off into a new entity along with its AT&T TV and U-Verse business. The existing Sunday Ticket deal lasts through 2022.Asked about the next steps for Sunday Ticket, Rolapp said the NFL has seen "lots of interest" in acquiring the out-of-market package rights."It's a premium package for people who want to pay to get all of the games. It's done well in a paid-TV environment, and I think it will continue to do well in a paid-TV environment," he said. However, he added, "the type of custom nature of it, ... the fact that it's subscription lends itself very well to digital platforms, and so we believe Sunday Ticket has a very bright future, certainly in the digital space."Figuring out where exactly that future will be, he said, is "clearly the next thing on our docket, which we'll get to work on."Disclosure: Comcast is the owner of NBCUniversal, parent company of CNBC.VIDEO3:3203:32Former NFL player Damien Woody on his investing strategiesHalftime Report

2021/03/15, In this articleAMZNA Deliveroo courier rides along Regent Street delivering takeaway food in central London during Covid-19 Tier 4 restrictions.Pietro Recchia | SOPA Images | LightRocket via Getty ImagesLONDON - Food delivery service Deliveroo is seeking to raise £1 billion ($1.4 billion) by selling new shares in its upcoming initial public offering on the London Stock Exchange.The company announced Monday that some of its existing shareholders will also sell some of their shares.Alongside Amazon, Deliveroo is also backed by investors including Durable Capital Partners, Fidelity, T. Rowe Price, General Catalyst, Index Ventures and Accel.Deliveroo is also planning to offer £50 million of stock to its customers.Some early Deliveroo backers stand to make a 60,000% return on their investment, according to a report from tech media website Sifted on Monday.Deliveroo was valued at $7 billion in July when it raised an additional $180 million from investors. Reports have suggested that it could be valued at around $10 billion following the IPO.Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan Cazenove have been appointed as the joint global coordinators for the IPO. A date the initial public offering has not been officially announced but is likely to be in the next few weeks.A filing last week included details on Deliveroo's dual-class share structure, which will see Deliveroo CEO Will Shu get 20 votes per share, while all other shareholders will only be entitled to one vote per share.VIDEO1:4901:49Deliveroo CEO welcomes competition after restaurants try to outmaneuver his appSquawk Box EuropeLast week, the company also revealed that it made a loss of £223.7 million in 2020. The losses are substantially less in 2020 than they were in 2019, however, when the London-headquartered firm recorded a loss of £317 million.While the eight-year-old company is still in the red, its revenues climbed to £4.1 billion in 2020, up from £2.5 billion in 2019.Deliveroo's turnaroundDeliveroo went from near failure in 2020 amid a competition review into Amazon's minority investment, to turning an operating profit toward the end of the year thanks to the coronavirus lockdown-driven surge in demand for online takeout services.Today Deliveroo claims to have over 115,000 food merchants, 100,000 restaurants and millions of consumers across 12 countries. The filing shows that six million orders are made on Deliveroo every month.Amazon backed Deliveroo in May 2019, leading a $575 million funding round in exchange for a 16% stake in the business.In July 2019, the U.K.'s antitrust regulator, the Competition and Markets Authority, argued that Deliveroo's cash injection from Amazon could reduce competition by removing the possibility of the e-commerce giant re-entering the market, while Deliveroo could "cease to be distinct." It froze the investment for almost a year while it investigated.To the disappointment of rivals Just Eat and Domino's Pizza, the deal was approved by the CMA in August after Deliveroo said it could go out of business without the capital.As interest in the food delivery market continues to grow, UBS analysts have named seven stocks in the sector that are set to pop by up to 30%.People ordering takeout more frequently — and spending more when they do — means the sector could reach a value of almost $400 billion by 2024, the bank said. A Euromonitor estimate, meanwhile, said it could be worth $1 trillion in the next decade.— Additional reporting by CNBC's Ryan Browne.

2021/03/18, Cathie WoodSource: CNBCArk Invest's Cathie Wood doubled down on her investment in Teladoc Health amid weakness for the stock from new competition in the virtual doctor visits space.

2021/03/23, In this articleSHOP-CACOSTAMZNWMTVIDEO4:3304:33Costco, Amazon, Walmart and Shopify could win the 'Easter rally,' Jim Cramer saysMad Money with Jim CramerCNBC's Jim Cramer on Tuesday broke down a seasonal trading pattern in retail stocks that he thinks investors should be privy to.The "Mad Money" host reviewed stock analysis from noted technician Larry Williams, who took past trades into account to plot which way the stocks of Costco, Amazon, Walmart and Shopify could move during the early days of spring."If history's any guide, Williams is betting that a rising April tide will be able to lift all retail ships," Cramer said.Each of the stocks is down on the year except for Shopify, which is trading 2% higher. Costco is down 10% so far this year after climbing 28% in 2020.These retail-oriented stocks are in a position to climb higher, Williams says, if just in the near term. Cramer called it an "Easter rally," naming it after the holiday less than two weeks away."I think the move may have already started," he said.Going over chart analysis from Williams, Cramer noted how the retail group tends to rally in the days before or after the Easter holiday. He stopped short, however, of recommending how market participants could trade the moment and turn a profit."If you're worried about the rotation, you might want to use the rally in the essential retailers to ring the register," Cramer said. "As much as I like these companies long term and don't want to trade them, I can't blame anyone for taking a profit."VIDEO10:4310:43Cramer reveals retail stocks could trade higher on an 'Easter rally'Mad Money with Jim CramerDisclosure: Cramer's charitable trust owns shares of Walmart, Costco and Amazon.DisclaimerQuestions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2021/03/23, Deliveroo CEO Will Shu.Aurelien Morissard | IP3 | Getty ImagesLONDON — Deliveroo is planning to raise £1 billion ($1.38 billion) in its initial public offering next month when it is expected to debut on the London Stock Exchange.The food delivery service plans to offer up to 256,456,256 new shares at £3.90 to £4.60 per share, according to the company's prospectus, which was published Tuesday. Existing shareholders are also planning to sell up to 128,205,128 shares.The IPO will value the company between £7.6 billion and £8.8 billion, which is higher than previous reports had suggested. Even at the lower end of the range, Deliveroo will still be the largest tech IPO in Europe so far this year and the largest in Britain for a decade.Deliveroo's IPO is set to make the company's top shareholders hundreds of millions. Some of them will offload some shares in the IPO but investors are planning to keep hold of most of them.The biggest individual winner will be Deliveroo CEO Will Shu. He owns 90,570,400 shares, or 6.1% of share capital. Following the IPO, he will own 115,227,441 shares, or 6.3% of share capital. He will also have over 50% of the voting rights.Assuming Deliveroo prices at £4.25 per share, the midpoint of the range, Shu's stake will be worth around £490 million after the IPO. It could, however, climb as high as £530 million if the pricing is at the top end of the range.VIDEO1:4901:49Deliveroo CEO welcomes competition after restaurants try to outmaneuver his appSquawk Box EuropeOverall, Amazon stands to gain the most from the IPO. The tech giant will hold an 11.5% stake (209,720,160 shares) in Deliveroo after the IPO that will be worth around £1 billion depending on the pricing. It currently holds a 15.8% slice but it plans to sell 23,302,240 shares for anywhere between £90.8 million and £107.2 million, depending on pricing.Meanwhile, Index Ventures, which has also backed Facebook and Slack, currently holds 150,889,000 shares, or 10.2% share capital. If Deliveroo prices at the mid-range then its stake will be worth £641 million at the time of the IPO.Meanwhile, DST Global, which has also backed U.K. fintech Checkout, currently holds 148,676,600 shares, or 10.1% share capital. If Deliveroo prices at the mid-range then its stake will be worth £632 million at the time of the IPO.Both Index and DST Global are planning to sell around 15 million shares for roughly £60 million.Other VCs set to win big include Greenoaks, T. Rowe and Fidelity, who hold between 100 million and 150 million shares each. Their stakes will be worth around £500 million to £600 million each at the time of the IPO, depending on the pricing. Meanwhile, Bridgepoint and Accel hold stakes that will be worth almost £350 million if pricing is at the mid-range.Deliveroo's listing will take place on April 7. The stock ticker is currently unknown but options include "ROO" and "DROO."The company's prospectus shows that Deliveroo's revenue was up 54% in 2020, while gross margin was up from 24% to 30%. However, Deliveroo still posted a full-year loss of £224 million.  It comes after U.S. rival DoorDash was valued at $60 billion in an IPO on the New York Stock Exchange in December. Meanwhile, Grubhub was valued at just $5 billion when it went public in 2016.

2021/02/23, In this articleAMZN(L-R) Actor Casey Affleck with his award for best actor in 'Manchester By The Sea' and Amazon SVP Jeff Blackburn attend the Amazon Studios Oscar Celebration at Delilah on February 26, 2017 in West Hollywood, California.Todd Williamson | Getty ImagesJeff Blackburn, Amazon's SVP of business and corporate development, is leaving the company after a year-long hiatus, adding to a recent turnover among Amazon's leadership ranks.Blackburn, who went on a one-year sabbatical in 2020, was considered one of CEO Jeff Bezos' top lieutenants during his 22-year tenure at Amazon and was often mentioned as a potential successor to Bezos. Blackburn had roles in a range of businesses throughout his time at the company, including Amazon's Prime Video streaming unit, its Amazon Studios film division, Amazon Music and its advertising unit. News of Blackburn's departure and his farewell memo were previously reported by GeekWire. An Amazon spokesperson confirmed his departure to CNBC.Blackburn announced his exit from the company in an internal memo sent to members of Bezos' S-Team, a tight-knit group of over a dozen senior executives from almost all areas of Amazon's business, such as retail, cloud computing, advertising and operations.Blackburn's departure from Amazon is significant. He has long been a close adviser to Bezos and has deep roots at the company, having joined Amazon after working on the company's IPO as a junior investment banker at Deutsche Bank."I did the Excel models, wrote chunks of the AMZN IPO prospectus, etc.," Blackburn wrote in the memo. "One of the things that sticks with me to this day is that I was the one who carried all the team's heavier bags during our three weeks of global travel."I joined Amazon full-time soon thereafter...During my 22 years, I'd like to think I never stopped helping carry those heavier bags," Blackburn added.Blackburn wrote in the memo that he isn't retiring and "will have news on what's next for me soon."In a response to Blackburn's memo, Bezos thanked Blackburn for his more than two decades of leadership and praised him for being "a builder." He added: "When you talk, I find myself leaning in and listening carefully — always."Blackburn's move away from Amazon comes as Bezos prepares to leave his post as CEO later this year, turning the helm over to the company's top cloud boss ,AWS CEO Andy Jassy.The company recently underwent a leadership transition in its core retail business. Jeff Wilke, CEO of Amazon's worldwide consumer business, stepped down earlier this year. Dave Clark, who was senior vice president of retail operations, took over Wilke's role.Here's the full memo Blackburn sent to the S-Team and Bezos' response to the memo:From: Jeff BlackburnTo: S-teamSubject: Forever "jblack"S-team:  I have an important update for you all, one I know you've been waiting on for a long time...  The "too many Jeff's" bug that's been bothering many of you for two decades has been fixed!  Over the years, we've always had multiple Jeff's on s-team—Jeff Wilke, Jeff B, myself, and for a time Jeff Holden.  It's actually how I became "jblack" to many of you and to employees across Amazon. Wilke's retirement meant one less Jeff, and today, I'm taking it down to just the original.I am officially leaving Amazon today.  In late 1996, I was a junior investment banker at Deutsche Bank, assigned to a potential Amazon IPO project.  I did the excel models, wrote chunks of the AMZN IPO prospectus, etc.  One of the things that sticks with me to this day is that I was the one who carried all the team's heavier bags during our three weeks of global travel.  There was no Zoom or Chime, so it was quite a grueling process back then.In early 1998, I was told by the legendary CFO Joy Covey, that the website might become more than books… "you need to just come up here now, trust me."  Wow, you mean like Tapes & CDs & VHS? Done.I joined Amazon full-time soon thereafter.  I would do a lot of building with you all – 3P marketplace, M&A and BusDev teams, A9, Advertising, Amazon Music, Prime Video, Amazon Studios.  During my 22 years, I'd like to think I never stopped helping carry those heavier bags.  The newer initiatives, the ones that took extra courage and long-term thinking by our team.  And I hope that, on the margin, I pushed s-team and Amazon to be even more bold, see around corners, think big.  With the core business in as strong a position as it's ever been, I know that's what customers will want from you over the next decade.Terrific new s-team leaders have stepped into these big roles and are continuing to build and boldly invent.  I admire and particularly commend your leadership for the past 11 months: watching the company execute during COVID has been astonishing – your teams deliver Amazon's best when the best is most needed.I want to thank you all for your friendship, teamwork, and support.  What an amazing 22 years it has been together – I will cherish it, forever.  I'm not retiring and will have news on what's next for me soon.Of course, today, I am formally giving up "jblack@".  I have just one request—that I forever stay "jblack" in the halls of Amazon.  It'd be an honor, -Jeff---From: Jeff BezosTo: S-teamSubject: RE: Forever "jblack"It was a lucky day for us when you got assigned to that IPO roadshow. Watching you as that junior investment banker, it was easy to see your wicked smarts — fully on display. But who knew you'd be so driven by a relentless urge to invent and pioneer? From marketplace and advertising to the launch of Prime Video and Amazon Studios, you've been a builder. And you've helped all of us in everything — not just the things you directly led. You have judgment and your viewpoint is never redundant. When you talk, I find myself leaning in and listening carefully — always.Thank you for more than two decades of leadership. For pushing us all to keep exploring. For carrying all of those bags.Though it's not quite ready to be shared, jblack has kept me in the loop on his next chapter, and I can assure you it's a very exciting one! I predict that Jeff will be every bit as amazing in his new role as he's been in all his roles at Amazon. Easy prediction. Big congrats to you, Jeff.Your friend always,Jeff

2021/03/22, In this articleAMZNThe Deliveroo app displayed on a smartphone screen.Thiago Prudencio | SOPA Images | LightRocket via Getty ImagesLONDON — British food delivery firm Deliveroo is seeking a valuation of up to £8.8 billion ($12.2 billion) in its upcoming initial public offering in London.The company, which is backed by Amazon, set a price range of between £3.90 and £4.60 per share for its blockbuster IPO, implying an estimated market cap of between £7.6 billion and £8.8 billion.Deliveroo's market debut is set to be one of the biggest U.K. listings in years. The company announced plans to IPO in London earlier this month, giving the U.K. capital a big win after Brexit as it aims to lure more high-growth tech companies.A government-backed review urged reforms to London's listing regime, including the ability to list dual-class shares like those pioneered by the likes of Google and Facebook. Currently, firms are unable to do so on the premium segment of London's stock market, which prevents them from being eligible for inclusion in benchmarks like the FTSE 100.Deliveroo has opted for a dual-class share structure that gives CEO and founder Will Shu enhanced voting rights. Shu will get 20 votes per share while other investors are entitled to only one. Deliveroo hopes to raise gross proceeds of £1 billion from its IPO."We are proud to be listing in London, the city where Deliveroo started," Shu said in a statement Monday."Becoming a public company will enable us to continue to invest in innovation, developing new tech tools to support restaurants and grocers, providing riders with more work and extending choice for consumers, bringing them the food they love from more restaurants than ever before."Deliveroo says it will use the IPO proceeds to enhance its platform and push deeper into on-demand grocery deliveries, which have benefited heavily from the coronavirus pandemic.In a trading update Monday, Deliveroo said the total value of transactions it processes more than doubled in the first two months of the year, getting a boost from the U.K.'s coronavirus lockdown. Volumes grew by 130% year-on-year in the U.K. and Ireland while other markets grew 112%.Deliveroo went from near failure in 2020 amid a competition review into Amazon's minority investment in the firm, to operating profitability toward the end of the year thanks to the pandemic-driven surge in demand for online takeout apps."We have seen a strong start to 2021 and we are only at the start of an exciting journey in a large, fast-growing online food delivery market, with a huge opportunity ahead," said Shu.Deliveroo has earmarked £50 million worth of shares to be offered to its customers. The firm is promoting the offering in a large banner ad near the top of its app. It comes as retail traders have been piling into the stock market in recent months, a phenomenon that led to huge fluctuations in the prices of heavily-shorted stocks like GameStop and AMC.

2021/03/03, Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon, pictured on Oct. 2, 2019.Elif Ozturk | Anadolu Agency | Getty ImagesFive senators are calling on Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos to provide more information on the company's recent deployment of "surveillance cameras" in vehicles used by contracted delivery drivers.In a letter Wednesday, Sens. Ed Markey of Massachusetts, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Cory Booker of New Jersey and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut asked for more clarity on Amazon's use of footage collected by the cameras and the scope of their use, with a deadline for Bezos to respond by March 24.The letter was in response to reporting by CNBC in February, which revealed that Amazon recently began rolling out cameras from Netradyne in vehicles at a handful of contracted delivery partners across the U.S. The cameras, which Amazon said record drivers "100% of the time," have four lenses that capture the road, the driver, and both sides of the vehicle. The cameras are equipped with software that's capable of flagging a series of safety infractions, including failure to stop at a stop sign, speeding and distracted driving.In a training video distributed to delivery firms, Amazon said the cameras will help improve safety across its delivery network, but drivers and privacy advocates raised concerns about the potential for heightened employee surveillance and a lack of privacy.The senators called on Bezos to address these concerns, adding that the company's use of surveillance cameras in delivery vans "raises important privacy and worker oversight questions that Amazon must answer.""While we applaud efforts to improve safety on the roads and decrease the plague of distracted driving, we need a better understanding of how your company will protect against potential new safety hazards stemming from increased worker surveillance," the senators wrote. "Although Amazon may intend for its use of Driveri cameras to improve safety on the road, this surveillance could, in practice, create significant pressure on drivers to speed up on their routes, which can lead to driver fatigue and decreased safety."The Netradyne cameras are just one way that Amazon seeks to monitor and track its delivery service partner program, which refers to the network of Amazon-branded cargo vans responsible for a growing share of the company's last-mile deliveries.As CNBC previously reported, Amazon also requires contracted delivery drivers to download and continuously run a smartphone app called Mentor that monitors their driving behavior while they're on the job. The app is designed to improve driver safety, but some delivery drivers have described the app as invasive and raised concerns that bugs within the app can sometimes lead to unfair disciplinary actions from their manager.VIDEO4:5404:54Amazon union vote underway in Alabama warehouseThe Exchange

2021/03/08, In this articleAMZNDeliveroo CEO Will Shu.Aurelien Morissard | IP3 | Getty ImagesLONDON —Deliveroo, the Amazon-backed food delivery service, has revealed that it recorded a loss of £223.7 million ($309 million) last year in plans to float on the London Stock Exchange that were published Monday.Deliveroo's losses are substantially less than they were in 2019, when the London-headquartered firm recorded a loss of £317 million. While the eight-year-old company is still in the red, its revenues climbed to £4.1 billion in 2020, up from £2.5 billion in 2019.A date for Deliveroo's initial public offering has not been officially announced but it is likely to be in the next few weeks. Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan Cazenove have been appointed as the joint global coordinators.Deliveroo could be valued at around $10 billion in the stock market listing, according to reports. It recently raised $180 million in fresh funding giving it a $7 billion valuation. Alongside Amazon, Deliveroo is also backed by Durable Capital Partners, Fidelity, T. Rowe Price, General Catalyst, Index Ventures and Accel.In the company's "Expected Intention To Float" filing published on Monday, Deliveroo CEO Will Shu said that he "never set out to be a founder or a CEO" and that he "didn't read TechCrunch.""I'm not one of those Silicon Valley types with a million ideas," said the former Morgan Stanley analyst in a letter included in the filing. "I had one idea. One idea born out of personal frustration. An idea that I was fanatically obsessed with: I wanted to get great food delivered from amazing London restaurants."Fight for survivalDeliveroo went from near failure in 2020 amid a competition review into Amazon's minority investment, to operating profitability toward the end of the year thanks to the coronavirus lockdown-driven surge in demand for online takeout services.VIDEO1:4901:49Deliveroo CEO welcomes competition after restaurants try to outmaneuver his appSquawk Box EuropeToday Deliveroo claims to have over 115,000 food merchants and 100,000 restaurants and millions of consumers across 12 countries. The filing shows that six million orders are made on Deliveroo every month.But Deliveroo is "still getting started," according to Shu.  "Our ambitions have increased as we start to truly understand and execute on the opportunity in front of us in online food," he said.More power for ShuThe filing includes details on Deliveroo's dual-class share structure, which will see Shu get 20 votes per share, while all other shareholders will only be entitled to one vote per share.This structure, which will give Shu enhanced voting rights and more control over the direction of the company, will be in place for three years.It comes after a government-backed review called for reforms to London's listing regime, including the ability to list dual-class shares which were pioneered by Google and Facebook.Deliveroo is planning to reserve £50 million worth of shares for customers across the U.K.."We are proud to be enabling our customers to participate in a future float and have the chance to buy shares," said Shu. "Your loyalty and custom has helped build our business. I want you to have a chance to share in our future."Deliveroo said it will use the proceeds from the IPO to enhance its app, expand its delivery-only "Editions" kitchens, and push deeper into on-demand grocery deliveries, which are currently offered by supermarkets like Waitrose, Co-op, Londis, Aldi and Carrefour. Deliveroo is also planning to give £16 million to its riders through a new "Thank You Fund," with a handful of loyal riders to be given payouts of £10,000. Others will receive £1,000, £500, £200, or £100, depending on how many orders they have delivered. The average payout will be £440.Over the years, some of the firm's riders have complained about how much they're paid by Deliveroo and campaigned to be classed as workers instead of contractors, making them eligible for things like sick pay and holidays.Amazon's Deliveroo betAmazon backed Deliveroo in May 2019, leading a $575 million funding round in exchange for a 16% stake in the business.In July 2019, the U.K.'s antitrust regulator, the Competition and Markets Authority, argued that Deliveroo's cash injection from Amazon could reduce competition by removing the possibility of the e-commerce giant re-entering the market, while Deliveroo could "cease to be distinct." It froze the investment for almost a year while it investigated.To the disappointment of rivals Just Eat and Domino's Pizza, the deal was approved by the CMA in August after Deliveroo said it could go out of business without the capital.— Additional reporting by CNBC's Ryan Browne.

2021/03/05, VIDEO2:3002:30Six Dr. Seuss books pulled for racist and insensitive imageryThe News with Shepard SmithBooks by Dr. Seuss have flooded Amazon's U.S. bestseller list after it was announced that six of the author's publications were being pulled over racist imagery. "The Cat in the Hat" is currently the bestselling book on Amazon's U.S. store, closely followed by "One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish" and "Green Eggs and Ham," along with several other titles by the late Theodor Seuss Geisel. In total, 15 Dr. Seuss publications were in Amazon's top 20 list on Friday morning. "Green Eggs and Ham" and "The Cat in the Hat" also appeared in Amazon Canada's top 10 bestselling books list. This comes after Dr. Seuss Enterprises, the business running the late author's estate, said Tuesday it made the decision last year to cease publication and licensing of six of his books: "And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street," "If I Ran the Zoo," "McElligot's Pool," "On Beyond Zebra!," "Scrambled Eggs Super!" and "The Cat's Quizzer."  "These books portray people in ways that are hurtful and wrong," Dr. Seuss Enterprises said in the statement, with some of the author's books having faced criticism in recent years over racist imagery. The announcement came on Read Across America Day on Tuesday, which would have been Geisel's 117th birthday and has been associated with the author. Dr. Seuss' never-before-published book, "What Pet Should I Get?" is seen on display on the day it is released for sale at the Books and Books store on July 28, 2015 in Coral Gables, United States.Joe Raedle | Getty ImagesPresident Joe Biden left any mention of Dr. Seuss out of his Read Across America Day proclamation on Monday, signaling a further distancing from the author. Former Presidents Donald Trump and Barack Obama mentioned Dr. Seuss in their previous speeches. After rumors of a ban on Dr. Seuss books, the school district of Loudoun County, Virginia, issued a statement last weekend to clarify that it hadn't done so but had provided "guidance to schools during the past couple of years to not connect Read Across America Day exclusively with Dr. Seuss' birthday." "Research in recent years has revealed strong racial undertones in many books written/illustrated by Dr. Seuss," the statement said.

2021/03/02, Amazon.com Inc. parking signage stands outside a Kohl's Corp. department store in Huntington Beach, California, U.S., on Saturday, May 11, 2019.Kyle Grillot | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesKohl's said it added at least 2 million new customers last year thanks to an unlikely friend that it has found in Amazon."While details of the partnership are confidential, we will continue to see that this is accretive to both sales and profit," Chief Executive Officer Michelle Gass said during a conference call Tuesday morning.Kohl's began accepting Amazon returns at 10 of its stores in the spring of 2017. By the summer of 2019, the Amazon returns kiosks were rolled out nationwide. The hope has been that the service would drive foot traffic and boost sales.According to Kohl's, a third of these new visitors were millennials. The company likely hopes it can make these new shoppers repeat visitors.VIDEO3:4303:43Kohl's CEO Michelle Gass says the company is focused on creating shareholder valueHalftime ReportConversion rates are trending upward for the people visiting Kohl's stores to return a package to Amazon, Gass said, which means visitors are increasingly ringing something up at the register before they go.Gass has been looking to collaborations with other big-name brands to broaden Kohl's customer base, including an upcoming partnership with the beauty business Sephora.Earlier Tuesday, Kohl's reported fiscal fourth-quarter earnings and sales that topped analysts' estimates. The company predicts stronger growth ahead. It also reinstated its dividend and said it plans to buy back shares.Meanwhile, Kohl's is also facing pressure from a group of activist investors who have attempted to seize control of the company's board. Among other things, the group has said it's skeptical that Kohl's tie-up with Amazon is adding to sales. In a letter published in late February, the activists called out Kohl's "reluctance to share detailed information about the program with investors."Kohl's shares recently were up more than 2%. Its stock has gained 45% over the past 12 months, as of Monday's market close, bringing its market value to $8.99 billion. That's bigger than rival Nordstrom's and Macy's.VIDEO5:5105:51Former Macy's CEO on post-pandemic retail outlook, Kohl's and moreSquawk Box

2021/02/17, In this articleAMZNAmazon.com boxes are shown stacked near a Boeing 767 Amazon "Prime Air" cargo plane on display in a Boeing hangar in Seattle.Ted S. Warren | APAmazon's aircraft fleet is on pace to have doubled in size between May 2020 and June of this year, laying further groundwork for Amazon Air to rival the likes of carriers FedEx and UPS, according to a study. Amazon Air now makes an average of 140 flights per day and is expanding its fleet, signaling a "growth spurt this spring," said the report issued Tuesday by DePaul University's Chaddick Institute for Metropolitan Development."As new airplanes are added to the fleet, we anticipate the number of flights will grow to 160+ by June 2021," according to the report. "If it reaches this milestone, Amazon Air will have approximately doubled in size in the 13 months between May 2020 and June 2021." Amazon's air cargo fleet is a critical part of the company's strategy to meet its increasingly ambitious one- and two-day delivery targets. The company quietly began testing out air cargo operations in Wilmington, Ohio, in 2015 as part of a project under the code name "Aerosmith." Since then, Amazon Air has grown rapidly, particularly during the coronavirus pandemic. VIDEO1:2701:27Amazon is making one-day shipping the new standard for Prime membersNews VideosAmazon leases most of its cargo aircraft through Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings and Air Transport Services Group, but in January it purchased 11 used Boeing 767-300 jets from Delta and WestJet. When the 11 Boeing jets are in service by the end of 2022, Amazon will have a fleet of more than 85 planes. That's a far cry from FedEx, which has 679 planes, and UPS' fleet of 572 owned, leased or chartered aircraft.Still, analysts believe Amazon's growth trajectory could set it on a collision course with major shippers. Morgan Stanley has predicted Amazon could potentially leverage its end-to-end logistics operations to offer delivery services to outside parties as soon as this year.The DePaul researchers agree with the Morgan Stanley prediction, but believe it will take longer because Amazon will wait for its $1.5 billion air hub in northern Kentucky to open this year, possibly use the 2021 holiday season as a test, then explore the idea of opening up its logistics services to third parties. "Amazon's entry into this business will likely occur in the next 18 months, and when it occurs, Amazon Air — and the CVG/Wilmington hubs in particular — will be critical," says the study. Flights from the Kentucky and Ohio airports where Amazon's hubs are located "already connect Amazon to most of the US population," they added. The company offers a next-day delivery service in the U.K. to third-party retailers who don't sell on its platform, called Amazon Shipping, proving it already has its "toe in the water," of offering up its in-house delivery network to outside parties, said Joseph Schwieterman, director of the Chaddick Institute, in an interview. Amazon previously operated a similar service in the U.S., but halted the nascent program in April as the pandemic placed major strains on its delivery network. "I think they can start to be a niche operation, where it's a couple of retailers that integrate themselves into the Amazon delivery network," Schwieterman said. "And that can be done without a whole lot of risk." 'One step closer to an airline' Aside from the sheer growth of Amazon's fleet size, the company has made other moves that could telegraph broader ambitions in the air cargo industry. Amazon is bringing some air cargo operations in house, instead of relying on outside contractors. Over the last few months, the company has posted job listings for maintenance managers and managers to oversee contracted air ground operators."If you're just leasing planes, you don't set up an internal staff that has expertise in heavy maintenance and things like that," Schwieterman said. Any shift away from contractors will move slowly, at least in the U.S., Schwieterman acknowledged. The company's first European air hub at Leipzig/Halle airport in Germany, which opened last November, provides a good example of how Amazon's future U.S. air cargo operations might take shape. At the Leipzig/Halle hub, Amazon is now handling the ground services, such as loading and unloading packages, with their own staff, "which is one step closer to being set up to run like an airline," Schwieterman said. Ultimately, moving more of its air cargo operations in house would allow Amazon to better control costs and delivery speeds. "I think Amazon's enormously complicated supply chain is subject to risk when you are so solely dependent on a handful of contractors," Schwieterman said. "One of them goes broke, or one of them cuts the cord, and suddenly you have a crisis. "So I do think getting expertise on what it takes to run an airline will allow them to make strategic decisions about how much to bring in house in a methodical way," he added.Representatives from Amazon didn't immediately respond to a request for comment on the study and its expansion plans for Amazon Air.VIDEO10:0210:02Adding planes, Amazon aims to compete with FedEx and UPS in logisticsTech

2021/03/29, In this articleLSEG-GBMike Kemp | In Pictures | Getty ImagesLONDON – Food delivery start-up Deliveroo has changed the target value for its initial public offering on the London Stock Exchange, after some investors expressed concerns over workers' rights and the company's share ownership structure.The Amazon-backed company announced Monday that it will now sell shares for £3.90 ($5.40) to £4.10 each instead of £3.90 to £4.60 each. As a result, Deliveroo's market cap will be between £7.6 billion and £7.8 billion, instead of between £7.6 billion and £8.8 billion.Deliveroo said it's reacting to market conditions, which have taken a turn for the worse in the last week. Half of the tech IPOs in the U.S., and in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, priced in the bottom third of their announced ranges last week.However, the new share price range announcement also comes amid an investor revolt. Several large investors said they plan to shun the Deliveroo IPO on April 7 over workers' rights and the company's share ownership structure, which gives CEO Will Shu over 50% of the voting rights.The U.K.'s largest fund manager, Legal and General Investment Management, which manages over £1.3 trillion in assets, said it probably won't be involved, citing concerns around the gig economy that Deliveroo operates in and the company's share ownership structure. Aberdeen Standard and Aviva Investors, which manage over £800 billion between them, said they're concerned about Deliveroo workers' rights, while M&G Investments said it is also planning to skip on the IPO.It also comes after the Independent Worker's Union for Great Britain pointed out that some of Deliveroo's riders can earn less than £2 an hour, while Shu was set to net up to £530 million in the IPO.VIDEO1:4901:49Deliveroo CEO welcomes competition after restaurants try to outmaneuver his appSquawk Box EuropeDeliveroo rebuffs accusations it does not treat its riders properly and says that its platform gives them the flexibility to work when they want, as do rivals like Just Eat and UberEats. It says riders earn £13 per hour on average during the busiest times.Deliveroo has offered to pay loyal couriers a bonus of between £200 and £10,000 in the IPO, with the average payout being £440. However, a small number of disgruntled riders held a strike in London on Sunday.Deliveroo insisted that the share price reduction had nothing to do with the investor backlash and the union action, insisting it is purely down to market conditions. It pointed out that four out of six U.S. tech IPOs priced last week are below offer price."Given volatile global market conditions for IPOs, Deliveroo is choosing to price responsibly within the initial range and at an entry point that maximizes long-term value for our new institutional and retail investors," a Deliveroo spokesperson said.They added that Deliveroo has seen strong demand from investors worldwide but declined to specify which ones. "The deal is covered multiple times throughout the range, led by three highly respected anchor investors," the spokesperson said.Clarification: The headline and text of this article has been updated to better reflect what Deliveroo has changed with its valuation target.

2021/03/01, In this articleAMZNU.S. President Joe Biden delivers remarks prior to signing an executive order, aimed at addressing a global semiconductor chip shortage, in the State Dining Room at the White House in Washington, February 24, 2021.Jonathan Ernst | ReutersWithout naming Amazon specifically, President Joe Biden on Sunday expressed support for a closely watched union vote at one of the retail giant's Alabama warehouses, calling it "vitally important.""Today and over the next few days and weeks, workers in Alabama and all across America are voting on whether to organize a union in their workplace," Biden said in a video shared to his Twitter page. "This is vitally important — a vitally important choice, as America grapples with the deadly pandemic, the economic crisis and the reckoning on race — what it reveals is the deep disparities that still exist in our country."Representatives from Amazon didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.Earlier this month, close to 6,000 workers at an Amazon facility in Bessemer, Alabama, began voting by mail on whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, kicking off the first major unionization effort within the company since 2014. Last November, workers at the Alabama facility notified the NLRB of their plans to hold a vote on whether to be represented by the RWDSU.Ballots were sent out to employees on Feb. 8 and they must be received by the National Labor Relations Board's regional office by March 29. Counting will begin the following day.The unionization effort in Alabama has emerged as a protracted labor battle at Amazon, with the company hiring the same law firm it used to assist with negotiations during a failed union drive in Delaware in 2014. Amazon has also made its position on the union campaign clear to workers at the Bessemer facility, by holding mandatory meetings, setting up a website urging workers to "do it without dues" and, according to recent Vice report, distributing pamphlets instructing workers to "Vote NO" on the historic election.Additionally, Amazon had sought to postpone the union election and pushed for an in-person election, which the NLRB denied.In the video, Biden said it's "up to the workers, full stop" to decide whether they want to join a union. He also discouraged employers from interfering in union elections."There should be no intimidation, no coercion, no threats, no anti-union propaganda," Biden said. "No supervisor should confront employees about their union preferences."You know, every worker should have a free and fair choice to join a union...no employer can take that right away. So make your voice heard," he added.While on the campaign trail, Biden made promises to be "the most pro-union president." He also made empowering workers a key tenet of his labor agenda.In a statement, Union President Stuart Applebaum thanked Biden for showing his support for the union drive."As President Biden points out, the best way for working people to protect themselves and their families is by organizing into unions," Applebaum said in a statement. "And that is why so many working women and men are fighting for a union at the Amazon facility in Bessemer, Alabama."VIDEO4:5404:54Amazon union vote underway in Alabama warehouseThe Exchange

2021/03/04, Inside Amazon's first Amazon Fresh grocery store in Los Angeles.AmazonLONDON — Amazon launched its first checkout-free store in Britain Thursday.Called Amazon Fresh, the store is located in Ealing, London, and will let customers walk in, pick up what they want and walk out again without having to pay at a cash register.The items appear on a virtual receipt linked to customers' Amazon accounts moments later.It's Amazon's first brick-and-mortar store to launch outside of the U.K. The move is in stark contrast to Disney, which announced Wednesday it would close 20% of its physical Disney Stores.Amazon Fresh uses the same technology pioneered by the tech giant's Amazon Go stores in the U.S.First opened to the public in 2018, Amazon Go uses scales, shelf cameras and sensor technology to track items when they're taken off the shelf.Last year, the firm launched smart shopping carts that track goods that are added and automatically charges shoppers once they remove their grocery bags.Amazon's isn't the only high-tech shopping experience in the U.K. — supermarkets like Sainsbury's and Tesco have already tried to replicate Amazon Go's technology.The U.S. e-commerce will compete directly with Britain's grocery chains. It's also launching a new brand called "by Amazon," which will sell food at its Amazon Fresh store.The move comes as Britain looks to gradually lift its coronavirus lockdown restrictions over the next few months. If all goes to plan, the government hopes a full reopening can take place by June 21.

2021/03/17, Monster Energy drinksDavid Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2021/02/18, In this articleAMZNCNBC | Todd HaseltonAmazon gadgets like the Echo save a copy of everything you ask Alexa. That means there's a whole collection of voice recordings logged for every request or command you've given Amazon's voice assistant.Amazon says that Alexa only begins recording when it thinks you've said the wake word (the default is "Alexa"), so it's not listening all the time. But it sometimes uses a small sample of voice recordings to train the voice assistant to work better, which means in rare cases that humans might review those recordings to understand if Alexa misinterpreted a request.If you use Amazon Alexa a lot, it's worth knowing how to stop it from saving those recordings or using them for training. Here's what you do.How to view your Amazon Alexa voice historyThere are several ways to view your Amazon Alexa voice history. I prefer using the Alexa app on my phone, since it's always in my pocket, but you can also visit Amazon's website. Here's what to do on your phone:Download the Alexa app for iPhone or Android.Open the Alexa app.Tap "More" on the bottom right.Tap "Activity."Choose the "Voice History" tab on top.Next to "Displaying" choose "All History" and "All devices."Now you'll see a list of everything Alexa has recorded. Move through these to play a snippet of the audio Alexa has recorded.How to delete your Amazon Alexa voice historyThe easiest way to delete everything at once is to simply say "Alexa, delete everything I've ever said." You can change that to "Alexa, delete what I just said" to delete the last question you asked, or "Alexa, delete everything I've said today" to remove everything you've said in a single day.There's a bonus setting you should know about, though. You can also set Alexa to automatically delete everything after a certain amount of time. I have mine set up to delete everything older than every 3 months. To configure this:Download the Alexa app for iPhone or Android.Open the Alexa app.Tap "More" on the bottom right.Tap "Settings"Choose "Alexa Privacy"Tap "Manage your Alexa Data"Change the setting under "Choose how long to save recordings" to your preferred time frame, either indefinitely, for 18 months, for 3 months or never.How to make sure Amazon doesn't use your Alexa voice recordings for trainingFinally, you can prevent your recordings from being used by Amazon to train Alexa. Amazon says that "only an extremely small fraction of voice recordings are manually reviewed" and that if you turn it off "voice recognition and new features may not work well for you." I have this off and it works fine. You may want it off, too. To do that:Download the Alexa app for iPhone or Android.Open the Alexa app.Tap "More" on the bottom right.Tap "Settings"Choose "Alexa Privacy"Tap "Manage your Alexa Data"Scroll down and turn off the toggle button under "Help improve Alexa."Make sure the toggle buttons on the bottom for family members (if you have them attached to your account) are also off.VIDEO12:5912:59How virtual assistants have evolved, and why Siri lags behind the othersTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/03/04, A Deliveroo courier rides along Regent Street delivering takeaway food in central London during Covid-19 Tier 4 restrictions.Pietro Recchia | SOPA Images | LightRocket via Getty ImagesLONDON — British food delivery start-up Deliveroo announced Thursday that it plans to list in London, in a post-Brexit boost for the City.The firm, which is backed by Amazon, is expected to go public later this year. It went from near failure in 2020 amid a competition review into Amazon's minority investment, to operating profitability toward the end of the year thanks to the coronavirus lockdown-driven surge in demand for online takeout services. Amazon's stake in Deliveroo was greenlit by the regulator last summer.Deliveroo said it would adopt a dual-class share structure for its market debut, giving its founder and CEO Will Shu enhanced voting rights and therefore more control over the direction of the company. It comes after a government-backed review called for reforms to London's listing regime, including the ability to list dual-class shares which were pioneered by Google and Facebook.In Deliveroo's case, the dual-class structure will be limited to three years followed by a shift to a traditional single-class share structure, in line with the recent recommendations."Deliveroo was born in London," Shu said in a statement Thursday. "This is where I founded the company and delivered our first order. London is a great place to live, work, do business and eat. That's why I'm so proud and excited about a potential listing here."The news is a boon to London's stock market, which is looking to attract more high-growth tech firms to compete with New York and the European Union, following Britain's withdrawal from the bloc. Amsterdam last month overtook London as the biggest share trading capital in Europe."The U.K. is one of the best places in the world to start, grow and list a business — and we're determined to build on this reputation now we've left the EU," said British Finance Minister Rishi Sunak. "That's why we are looking at reforms to encourage even more high growth, dynamic businesses to list in the U.K.""Deliveroo has created thousands of jobs and is a true British tech success story," Sunak added. "It is great news that the next stage of their growth will be on the public markets in the U.K."Deliveroo hasn't yet disclosed pricing information for its initial public offering. It recently raised $180 million in fresh funding at a $7 billion valuation. Alongside Amazon, Deliveroo is also backed by Durable Capital Partners, Fidelity, T. Rowe Price, General Catalyst, Index Ventures and Accel."This is an important boost for U.K. tech," said Stephen Kelly, the chair of lobbying group Tech Nation. "With seven new unicorns created in 2020 alone, the U.K. now has a total of 80 scaleups valued at more than £1 billion."That is more than twice as many unicorns as Germany and France," Kelly added. "We expect to see more of our home-grown success stories following suit in what is just the start of a golden age for U.K. tech."Several other firms are rumored to be exploring London listings, including fintech start-up Wise and cybersecurity company Darktrace. On Monday, Danish reviews website Trustpilot announced it said it was considering launching an IPO in London.

2021/02/17, In this articleAMZNAmazon's smart cuckoo clock.AmazonAmazon on Wednesday announced a new program called Build It that lets consumers have a say in some of the products Amazon will produce.In a Kickstarter-like effort, Amazon customers can choose to back a new product, and if it gets enough support within 30 days, Amazon will build it. Customers will get charged only if the product is developed and ships.The program should help Amazon decide what products will be popular before it even builds them. Amazon has used a similar program in the past, called Day 1 Editions, to build experimental products like its Echo Frames smart glasses. Amazon wouldn't say whether it plans to use this program for all of its products or if it may open it up to third-party inventors.Amazon's smart sticky note printerAmazonAmazon Build It kicks off with three concepts: an $89.99 smart sticky note printer, a $34.99 smart nutrition scale and a $79.99 cuckoo clock. Customers who back a product get a preorder discount. The price will increase if it Is made widely available.In recent years, Amazon has released a bunch of wild products with Alexa built in, ranging from microwaves to wall clocks to eyeglasses. Many of those products have failed to take off, and the Build It program is a way for Amazon to gauge customer interest in one of its ideas before it goes into full production.The printer works with Alexa and uses thermal technology instead of ink to print out small sticky note reminders. The scale can tell you how many calories are in specific foods. The cuckoo clock works with Alexa on an Amazon Echo and has a mechanical pop-out cuckoo bird.Amazon's smart nutritional scale.AmazonAmazon said it won't say how much money a specific product needs to launch. It will show a progress bar that shows how far along a product is and a percentage of the backing it needs to complete.The current concepts will be available at promotional prices through March 19. Amazon said more ideas are coming.VIDEO3:1303:13Andy Jassy set to inherit Amazon's antitrust scrutiny, regulatory riskTech

2021/02/11, In this articleAMZNAmazon.com Inc. packages sit in front of a FedEx Corp. delivery truck in New York.Christopher Lee | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAn Amazon seller complained to lawmakers Thursday of unfair forced arbitration clauses the platform uses to prevent potentially damaging outcomes in court.Jacob Weiss, founder and president of home goods retailer OJ Commerce, told the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust that he, like many other e-commerce business owners, relies on Amazon to survive. Because of Amazon's huge presence in the online shopping market, small sellers have frequently said they feel dependent on the platform to drive sales. Weiss said that gave him "no choice" but to sign Amazon's contract allowing him to sell on its platform, which included a forced arbitration clause that also prevented him from bringing class-action cases against the company."Amazon's forced arbitration clauses have made it impossible to get a fair shake," Weiss told the subcommittee. "The system is rigged against small- to mid-sized online business owners."Weiss is just one of the more than 2.5 million third-party sellers who make up Amazon's sprawling marketplace. The marketplace now accounts for more than half of the company's e-commerce sales and has helped Amazon bring in record revenue. It has also been a focus of antitrust investigators in the U.S. and abroad, who believe Amazon uses its market power to squeeze the merchants that sell on its platform.In order to begin selling products on Amazon's marketplace, small- and medium-sized businesses are required to sign and agree to the company's business solutions agreement, which includes a number of stipulations related to doing business on the platform. A section of the contract requires sellers to agree to resolve any disputes with Amazon through "binding arbitration ... rather than in court." The contract also requires sellers to conduct arbitration proceedings "only on an individual basis and not in a class, consolidated or representative action." By barring sellers from teaming up on bringing a complaint, "businesses can't share the cost of arbitrating against Amazon," Weiss said during the hearing, adding that the costs associated with "arbitration, legal and expert fees" can rise to the tens of thousands of dollars. In one case, Weiss said, he spent upwards of $50,000 on arbitration fees, not including attorney costs. Weiss said he prevailed on some claims but still "recovered very little" of what he lost.Weiss said that beyond limiting sellers' options to seek redress, forced arbitration makes it prohibitively expensive and difficult for them to get a favorable outcome. He argued arbitrators are financially incentivized to favor Amazon in order to retain their business and the limited scope of discovery means sellers are "left in the dark, but Amazon has all the information.""Amazon has mastered the art of driving up the cost of arbitration," Weiss said, adding that the prohibition of class action alone "has insulated Amazon."House Democrats on the antitrust subcommittee identified forced arbitration clauses as one aspect harming competition in digital markets in a report last fall. They recommended eliminating forced arbitration clauses so that private enforcement of antitrust laws could be strengthened. But getting Republicans on board with that idea will likely prove to be tricky. Rep. Ken Buck, R-Colo., now the ranking member of the subcommittee, said in his own report last year that eliminating forced arbitration clauses would be among his "non-starters." The idea is "rife with unintended consequences," Buck said in the report, though he added that "there is room for Congress to reevaluate some portions of arbitration clause policy."An Amazon spokesperson pointed CNBC to the responses Amazon supplied to the antitrust subcommittee as part of its investigation into Big Tech last year, but declined to comment further on Thursday's hearing.In responses to the subcommittee about its arbitration process, Amazon said that the "vast majority" of seller complaints and disputes are "resolved amicably and informally" via internal teams, with 163 sellers initiating arbitration proceedings between 2014 and July 2019. Amazon attempts to "negotiate a mutually agreeable resolution" during arbitration proceedings, the company added.The antitrust subcommittee investigated Amazon along with Apple, Facebook and Google for more than a year, finding that each holds monopoly power and recommending several updates to existing antitrust laws and their enforcement. While Republicans on the subcommittee disagreed with the scope of the Democrats' recommendations, many agreed with the thrust of the arguments about the concentration of power. All four companies denied the allegations in the congressional report.Facebook and Google now face lawsuits from state and federal lawmakers accusing them of unlawfully maintaining their monopolies. So far, Apple and Amazon have not seen antitrust charges from the government, but several outlets have reported that federal enforcers divided oversight of investigations into the companies in 2019.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: Andy Jassy set to inherit Amazon's antitrust scrutiny, regulatory riskVIDEO3:1303:13Andy Jassy set to inherit Amazon's antitrust scrutiny, regulatory riskTech

2021/02/16, In this articleAMZNJeff Bezos, founder and chief executive officer of Amazon.com Inc., speaks at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., on Thursday, Sept. 19, 2019.Andrew Harrer | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon has bought Selz, a company that makes tools to help businesses launch their own online stores.Amazon quietly acquired the e-commerce platform on Jan. 15, but it didn't publicize the acquisition. Selz announced the deal in a company blog post. "We have signed an agreement to be acquired by Amazon and are looking forward to working with them as we continue to build easy-to-use tools for entrepreneurs," Martin Rushe, CEO and founder of Selz, said in the blog post.An Amazon spokeswoman confirmed the acquisition. The spokeswoman declined to disclose the terms of the deal. Representatives from Selz didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. In recent months, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos has zeroed in on Shopify, an e-commerce enabler that has seen its business skyrocket during the pandemic, as a competitor as consumers have turned to online retailers for both essential and non-essential goods during the pandemic. VIDEO3:2003:20Shopify President Harley Finkelstein on predictions in e-commerce in 2021Squawk BoxAmazon previously operated a service similar to Shopify, called Amazon Webstore, that allowed small businesses to run online stores built on Amazon's technology. However, the company shut down Amazon Webstore in 2015.  The Selz acquisition comes as Amazon's third-party marketplace, made up of more than 2.5 million sellers, continues to thrive. The segment now accounts for more than half of Amazon's e-commerce sales and has helped Amazon bring in record revenue.  Providing more tools for small- and medium-sized businesses to quickly move their operations online could give Amazon a competitive edge against the likes of Shopify and e-commerce software company BigCommerce.Founded in 2013, Selz is based in Sydney, Australia, and provides small- and medium-sized businesses with a platform to launch their own online stores and add online payment options to existing websites, among other tools. The company employs less than 50 people, according to LinkedIn.In the blog post, Rushe said "nothing is changing" for Selz customers as a result of the Amazon acquisition. VIDEO3:2503:25Greater regulation could pose challenge for tech giants down the line: AnalystSquawk Box Europe

2021/02/11, In this articleAMZNSFER-ITSingapore Airline’s Salvatore Ferragamo-branded amenity bagSFO Museum Multiple third-party sellers allegedly advertised and facilitated the sale of counterfeit Salvatore Ferragamo goods on Amazon, according to two joint lawsuits Amazon and the Italian luxury label filed Thursday. The lawsuits filed in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington accuse four sellers and three businesses of using Amazon to peddle counterfeit belts that featured Ferragamo's branding and design elements. Other unnamed defendants, dubbed "Does 1-10," are included in both complaints. The four third-party sellers named in the lawsuits are Zhao Hao Jun of China; Zhang Lianfa of China; Li Yong; and Wu Pianpian. Zhao and Zhang didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Li and Wu couldn't be located for comment.The cases represent Amazon's latest effort to prevent the sale of counterfeits on its sprawling third-party marketplace. The marketplace now accounts for more than half of Amazon's e-commerce sales and has helped the company bring in record revenue. But it has also shown to host counterfeit, unsafe and even expired goods, prompting the company to invest hundreds of millions of dollars per year to ensure products are safe and compliant.Amazon has gone after counterfeiters in court and rolled out various programs to seek and detect sales of counterfeit goods. Last June, it launched the Counterfeit Crimes Unit, made up of former federal prosecutors, investigators and data analysts, to mine the site for fraudulent activity. Fake products can be particularly harmful to credible brands that sell on Amazon because they siphon away business and can force businesses that already survive on low margins to further lower their prices to compete. Amazon, which launched a dedicated luxury section of its site last September, has an incentive to protect its relationships with brands in order to ensure they will continue to offer their goods on the platform. Amazon and Ferragamo filed two separate lawsuits against the suspected counterfeiters, but the activities alleged in the complaints are similar in nature. In both complaints, Amazon and Ferragamo say they confirmed the items were fakes by purchasing a series of them. When the items arrived, they showed trademarked Ferragamo branding. Amazon said it shut the accounts down after it discovered they were selling counterfeits.Amazon and Italian luxury brand Salvatore Ferragamo filed two lawsuits against third-party sellers and businesses alleging they peddled counterfeit belts.In many cases, the listing pages for the counterfeit products left out "any mention of the Ferragamo word mark in the product descriptions," likely to evade Amazon's anti-counterfeiting detection tools, one complaint states. In many cases, the listing pages for the counterfeit products left out "any mention of the Ferragamo word mark in the product descriptions," the lawsuits allege.Additionally, several of the defendants took steps to hide their identities and location by using fake names and contact information, as well as unregistered businesses to operate on the platform, Amazon alleges.Many of the seller accounts offering the counterfeit items appeared to be connected to one another, both complaints allege. They used similar tactics to ensure their listings wouldn't get flagged by Amazon, and in some cases, counterfeit Ferragamo items from the various sellers would arrive in similar packaging, be shipped from the same address or be priced identically. Amazon and Ferragamo are seeking unspecified damages from the defendants, as well as an injunction from the sellers and businesses that would bar them from selling any products on Amazon or any products using Ferragamo's branding.VIDEO3:2503:25Greater regulation could pose challenge for tech giants down the line: AnalystSquawk Box Europe

2021/02/17, New York State Attorney General, Letitia JamesLucas Jackson | ReutersNew York Attorney General Letitia James sued Amazon.com on Tuesday over its handling of worker safety issues around the Covid-19 pandemic at two warehouses, just days after the retailer filed its own lawsuit seeking to block her case.In a complaint filed in a New York state court in Manhattan, James said Amazon's drive for faster growth and higher profits led to its "flagrant disregard" of steps needed to protect workers from the coronavirus at a Staten Island fulfillment center and a Queens distribution center, both in New York City.James also accused Amazon of illegally retaliating when employees began to complain, including last March when it fired activist Christian Smalls purportedly for violating a paid quarantine when he led a protest over conditions at the Staten Island warehouse."Throughout the historic pandemic, Amazon has repeatedly and persistently failed to comply with its obligation to institute reasonable and adequate measures to protect its workers," the lawsuit said."Amazon has cut corners in complying with the particular requirements that would most jeopardize its sales volume and productivity rates," it added.James sued four days after Amazon filed its own lawsuit in Brooklyn federal court to stop her from suing.Amazon said in its lawsuit that federal labor and safety laws took precedence over New York's in addressing workplace safety, and that James was overstepping her authority."We care deeply about the health and safety of our employees, as demonstrated in our filing," Amazon spokeswoman Kelly Nantel said in response to James' lawsuit."We don't believe the Attorney General's filing presents an accurate picture of Amazon's industry-leading response to the pandemic," Nantel added. Amazon also faced scrutiny last March when workers protested conditions at the Staten Island warehouse. New York City announced its own probe at the time.The attorney general's lawsuit seeks to require Amazon to upgrade its protections for workers, reinstate Smalls, and pay damages to him and another worker who allegedly faced retaliation.

2021/02/26, Amazon logo seen displayed on a smartphone.Igor Golovniov | SOPA Images | LightRocket | Getty ImagesGrocery retailers are set to "close the gap" with Amazon as they develop new revenue streams that could be worth billions, according to Goldman Sachs.While brick-and-mortar stores' push into e-commerce is costly, there is a "compensating upside" that investors have overlooked, the bank said: their ability to make money from selling ad space on their websites.It names six grocery stocks that were particularly well placed to benefit from this. Selling media space to consumer-packaged goods companies could see grocers make $15 billion-$20 billion in the U.S. alone by 2025, Goldman's analysts, led by Jason English, wrote in a note published Wednesday. They said this could be "substantially larger" if expanded to other manufacturers like clothing and sporting goods. Here's the list of the bank's "largest gainers" — the large brick-and-mortar grocers it says are "uniquely advantaged" to tap into this new revenue stream:

2021/02/12, Amazon vans line up at a distribution center to pick up packages for delivery on Amazon Prime Day, July 16, 2019, in Orlando, Florida.Paul Hennessy | NurPhoto | Getty ImagesLast week, Amazon triggered privacy concerns when it confirmed it's rolling out AI-enabled cameras in vans used by some of its contracted delivery partners. But the company has for years been using software to monitor and track delivery drivers' behavior on the road.Amazon requires contracted delivery drivers to download and continuously run a smartphone app, called "Mentor," that monitors their driving behavior while they're on the job. The app, which Amazon bills as a tool to improve driver safety, generates a score each day that measures employees' driving performance.The delivery service partner (DSP) program, launched in 2018, is made up of contracted delivery companies that handle a growing share of the online retail giant's last-mile deliveries. In just a few years, the program has grown to include more than 1,300 delivery firms across five countries, threatening to upend an industry that has traditionally been dominated by shipping partners such as UPS and FedEx.  Just like the AI-equipped cameras rolling out to contracted delivery companies, Mentor is framed as a "digital driver safety app" to help employees avoid accidents and other unsafe driving habits while they're en route to their destination. But multiple delivery drivers who spoke to CNBC described the app as invasive and raised concerns that bugs within the app can, at times, lead to unfair disciplinary action from their manager.  Amazon spokesperson Deborah Bass told CNBC in a statement: "Safety is Amazon's top priority. Whether it's state-of-the art telemetrics and advanced safety technology in last-mile vans, driver-safety training programs, or continuous improvements within our mapping and routing technology, we have invested tens of millions of dollars in safety mechanisms across our network, and regularly communicate safety best practices to drivers."But Bass did not respond to any of the specific allegations DSP drivers made to CNBC about the Mentor app detailed in this story, as well as questions about how the app uses certain behaviors to score drivers.Amazon drivers are required to log in to the Mentor app at the start of their shift each day.The scores generated by the Mentor app are used in more ways than just evaluating an individual's job performance, drivers say. Amazon also looks at the scores, in part, when ranking a delivery partner's status, according to the drivers, who asked to remain anonymous out of fear of retaliation from Amazon. The ranking system for DSPs ranges from "Poor" to "Good" to "Fantastic" to the top tier, referred to as "Fantastic+." A surplus of poor Mentor scores among a delivery partner's workforce can drag down the DSP's ranking, which can potentially jeopardize their access to benefits provided by Amazon, such as optimal delivery routes, the drivers said.The app also features a dashboard for drivers to "see how they stack up against the rest of their team." Mentor's score-based system raises concerns that the app intensifies the pressure of the job, pitting drivers and competing DSPs against each other to an unhealthy degree. DSPs are already under intense pressure due to the ease with which Amazon can cut contracts with delivery partners. "The knowledge that you're under this level of constant surveillance, that even if you're doing a good job at your job, an app or algorithm could make a determination that impacts your life or your ability to put food on the table for your kids is, I think, profoundly unjust," said Evan Greer, deputy director of the digital rights group Fight for the Future. "It's incredibly dystopian."How Mentor worksThe Mentor app was created by eDriving, a New Jersey-based technology company that develops road safety tools for the automotive and logistics industries. Representatives from eDriving did not respond to requests for comment.Amazon drivers are required to log into the Mentor app at the start of their shift each day. The app calculates a score for every driver, referred to as a "FICO score," based on their driving performance, and not to be confused with the credit rating of the same name. The Mentor app calculates a score for every driver, referred to as a "FICO score," based on their driving performance.The app tracks and measures driving behaviors such as harsh brakeing, speeding, making cellphone calls or sending text messages, according to a Mentor guide for DSP drivers. The app also tracks seatbelt use and driving in reverse, but those behaviors don't factor into a driver's FICO score.Mentor has a tiered system for scoring, with a top score of 800 to 850 considered to be "Great," while a score of 100 to 499 is considered to be the lowest level, or labeled by the app as "Risky." It's unclear how many points each infraction is worth, but drivers say some infractions can hurt their FICO score more than others. 'I had no control over it'The safety infractions don't have to be severe in order to drag down a driver's score on the Mentor app. "I got a ding because someone called me and I didn't answer it," said Devin Gonzales, a former driver who was fired by his Colorado-based DSP last month. The Mentor app had falsely flagged the incoming call as an infraction because it thought the phone was in use while he was driving. "I had no control over it," Gonzales added. At other DSPs across the U.S., delivery drivers said they experienced issues with the Mentor app. Adrienne Williams, who drove for Amazon until last July, ran the Mentor app on an electronic package scanner, referred to internally as a "rabbit." Drivers use the rabbit to indicate when they arrive at each delivery stop on their route, among other uses.Williams said she grew frustrated as she would pick up the rabbit device to mark her stop, while her van idled, but the Mentor app would log the action as distracted driving. As a result, Williams would see her Mentor score drop each time she arrived at a delivery destination."Every time I said I'm at the stop, I got dinged," Williams said in an interview. "And that is 150 stops in a day, so I got dinged at least 150 times a day." After this pushed her score from the "high 700s and 800s" to around the 400 level, "[the Mentor app] said my driving was risky," Williams said. "I got pulled aside and told your FICO score is too low."Williams' DSP later gave her another rabbit device, just to run the Mentor app. She said she would keep the device locked in her van's glove compartment to avoid any bugs with the app and to preserve her FICO score.DSPs can use data collected by the Mentor app for employment decisions, including disciplinary actions like write-ups. Drivers say if their score falls below a certain threshold, they can be taken off the work schedule for a few days or a week, lose access to bonuses and be barred from certain perks. For example, some DSPs will pay drivers for a full day's shift if they finish their work early, but if a driver's FICO score is too low, they'll only get paid for the hours they complete, drivers said. On Reddit forums and in Facebook groups, DSP drivers will share tips on how to game the Mentor app and raise their score. Some of the tips can be particularly convoluted. In one YouTube video, a DSP driver instructs employees to wrap the phone with Mentor installed in a sweater and place it in the van's glovebox so that it doesn't jostle around while the car is in motion, which the app can mistake as the driver using their device. "If your device moves at all, it's going to count against you," the driver, Juan Ramos, says in the video. "You have a bigger chance of making your score go down." While the Mentor app is meant to make drivers adopt safer driving habits, some DSP employees said it pushes them to take risks, as they worry the extra steps may slow them down and draw a rebuke from managers who expect speedy deliveries. The Mentor app is capable of tracking whether a driver is using their seatbelt if they're driving an Amazon-branded van. Some drivers will fasten their seatbelt, but place the strap that typically rests across their chest behind them, so they can more easily move about while they're driving, while avoiding an infraction from the Mentor app. "Most drivers buckle, put the seatbelt behind them and drive without a seatbelt on, which is unsafe," said one DSP driver from Ohio. If a driver feels the Mentor app has incorrectly flagged them, they can dispute it in the app. But that doesn't always lead to a resolution. "After you dispute it, they'll email you back and say, 'We're sorry,' and that's it," said the DSP driver from Ohio. "It's not a very robust system. I don't think [eDriving] understands how important a driver's score is."Tracked at home The Mentor app is a central focus of DSP drivers' day-to-day life on the job as they work to keep up their safety score. But the app may also follow drivers outside of their delivery van and into their homes. Some DSPs provide drivers with a company-issued phone where they can download and run Mentor, but several drivers told CNBC that they weren't provided with a separate device by their company, so they were required to download the app on their personal device.The Mentor app tracks a users' location using GPS. Privacy features in Apple's iOS operating system for iPhones prompt users via a pop-up message on the screen to select whether they'd like an app to run location services in the background just once, only while they're using the app or all the time. Drivers are told to allow the Mentor app to collect location data at all times. "When this message appears, you are presented with two options, 'Change to Only While Using' or 'Always Allow,'" the Mentor guide issued to DSP drivers states. "This setting should remain 'Always Allow' in order to accurately record trips."Williams said her Richmond, California-based DSP didn't provide drivers with a phone, so they were expected to download Mentor on their own device. Williams said she refused and the DSP gave her a different phone, but most of her co-workers were too apprehensive to voice their concerns, so they agreed to let Mentor track their location without any restrictions."A lot of my colleagues said it put them off but they didn't know what to do," Williams said. "So you're stuck saying, 'I'm going to allow my employer to follow me at all times on my personal phone.'"VIDEO3:2403:24Amazon announces Andy Jassy as new CEO — Here's what former employees and investors say about the moveTrading Nation

2021/02/03, An Amazon.com delivery driver carries boxes into a van outside of a distribution facility on February 2, 2021 in Hawthorne, California.Patrick T. Fallon | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon drivers at some U.S. facilities will soon have an extra set of eyes watching them when they hit the road to make their daily deliveries. The company recently began testing AI-equipped cameras in vehicles to monitor contracted delivery drivers while they're on the job, with the aim of improving safety. Amazon has deployed the cameras in Amazon-branded cargo vans used by a handful of companies that are part of its delivery service partner program, which are largely responsible for last-mile deliveries. The cameras could be rolled out to additional DSPs over time, and Amazon has already distributed an instructional video to DSPs, informing them of how the cameras work. Deborah Bass, an Amazon spokesperson, confirmed to CNBC that the company has begun using the AI-equipped cameras across its delivery fleet. Some details of Amazon's plans were previously reported by The Information."We are investing in safety across our operations and recently started rolling out industry leading camera-based safety technology across our delivery fleet," Bass said in a statement. "This technology will provide drivers real-time alerts to help them stay safe when they are on the road."DSPs are contracted delivery providers, usually distinguishable by Amazon-branded cargo vans, responsible for picking up packages from Amazon delivery stations and dropping them off at doorsteps.  The  program, launched in 2018, has allowed the company to quickly scale up its last-mile delivery capabilities and compete with shipping partners such as UPS and FedEx. Amazon's DSP program has faced criticism for lax safety protocols in the past. Investigations by NBC News, ProPublica and BuzzFeed News identified safety issues and described poor working conditions at some DSPs, based on interviews with drivers and former Amazon employees. The cameras could help improve safety, but privacy advocates and several DSP drivers said they're concerned about potential privacy tradeoffs. The drivers, who asked to remain anonymous out of fear of retaliation from Amazon, described the cameras as "unnerving," "Big Brother" and "a punishment system." Some drivers said they're concerned the AI-equipped cameras will add further pressure to a job that already involves an intense workload of delivering hundreds of packages a day. Footage collected by the cameras can be used for employment decisions, according to a privacy policy issued by Amazon in accordance with the cameras. The drivers told CNBC they're subject to disciplinary actions, up to firing, depending on the severity of the safety infraction logged by the camera. "I don't think [Amazon] even knows yet all the ways they will use the video that is collected by these devices," said Evan Greer, deputy director of the digital rights group Fight for the Future. "It just means that every Amazon vehicle will now also be an Amazon surveillance camera. And right now there are essentially no laws in place to govern what Amazon can do with all that footage once they collect it."How the cameras workIn the instructional video, which was seen by CNBC, Amazon says the cameras record "100% of the time" when drivers are on their route. Amazon is using an AI-powered camera made by Netradyne, a San Diego-based start-up that was founded in 2015 by two former senior Qualcomm employees. The camera, called Driveri, has four lenses that capture the road, the driver, and both sides of the vehicle. Netradyne did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Amazon is using an AI-powered camera made by Netradyne, a San Diego-based start-up that was founded in 2015 by two former senior Qualcomm employees.The cameras are equipped with artificial intelligence software capable of detecting 16 different safety issues, including if drivers fail to stop at a stop sign, distracted driving, speeding, hard braking and whether the driver is wearing a seatbelt. One DSP driver in Kentucky said the cameras can also detect when a driver is yawning. Certain safety violations will cause the camera to issue an audio alert, such as, "Maintain safe distance," "No stop detected," and "Please slow down," according to the video, which is narrated in part by Karolina Haraldsdottir, a senior manager for last-mile safety at Amazon. "Safety is our top priority at Amazon and it's our hope that this new system will give drivers and DSPs peace of mind while out delivering smiles to our customers," Haraldsdottir says in the video. When the camera detects that an employee is engaging in unsafe driving behavior, it triggers the camera to upload footage to a "secure portal" that's accessible by Amazon and the DSP. An Amazon spokesperson didn't respond to questions asking how the footage is secured. The cameras are equipped with artificial intelligence software capable of detecting 16 different safety issues, including hard braking.Drivers have some control over the camera, which doesn't record audio. A button on the camera allows drivers to upload footage manually, and drivers can turn off the cab-facing cameras when the ignition in their van is switched off, allowing for some privacy during their lunch break or while making a phone call. While Amazon maintains that the camera doesn't provide Amazon or DSPs with a "live feed," certain safety triggers flagged by the camera in real time may cause Amazon to reach out to the driver while they're on the road. For example, if a driver is caught yawning, the camera will instruct them to pull over for at least 15 minutes, the Kentucky driver told CNBC. If the driver doesn't comply, they may get a call from their DSP asking them to pull over, they added. Amazon can also use the footage for more than just enforcing safety measures. In the video, Haraldsdottir also explains that the footage can be used in incident investigations. This could include things like collisions with other vehicles or pedestrians, as well as package theft."Video footage can be one of the best tools for getting facts about a situation quickly," Haraldsdottir says in the video, before it cuts to a scenario where Driveri footage was "used to exonerate a driver from blame in safety incidents." The privacy policy states that footage can be handed over to law enforcement or used as evidence in legal proceedings when necessary.  "It sends a message of 'we don't trust you'"Amazon isn't the only logistics company relying on this technology. Last year, UPS tested forward-facing cameras equipped with sensors that issue safety alerts in vans in several cities as part of a "initial proof of concept" trial, said UPS spokesperson Dan McMackin. The test drew some pushback from the Teamsters labor union. The AI capabilities are equally concerning, experts say, given that it allows Amazon to rely on software to review the footage at scale, which has the potential to produce errors in judgment. Additionally, previous research on AI systems have shown the technology presents racial and gender bias, such as Gender Shades, a landmark 2018 study that revealed facial recognition technology is highly inaccurate for Black people. "When you layer a surveillance technology on top of a system that's already discriminatory, it sort of automates, amplifies, exacerbates that discrimination, without rules in place to protect workers," Greer said. DSP employees who may have been uncomfortable with the technology weren't given an opportunity to opt out, one Amazon driver in California, who asked to remain anonymous, told CNBC. The driver was required to electronically accept the terms and conditions to have the camera installed, "otherwise I would not be able to work for Amazon," they said. CNBC obtained a copy of the terms and conditions that were sent to the driver. Greer said the AI-equipped cameras send a message to workers that they can't be trusted. "It sends this message of we don't trust you, we are watching you," Greer said. "That just strikes me as wrong."

2021/03/04, Lawrence Guy #93 of the New England Patriots sacks Jimmy Garoppolo #10 of the San Francisco 49ers during the first quarter of the NFL game at Gillette Stadium on October 25, 2020 in Foxborough, Massachusetts.Matt Stone | MediaNews Group | Getty ImagesThe National Football league is close to a media rights deal with Amazon.com's Prime Video service, which would allow the streaming platform to carry many games exclusively, the Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday.A deal with Amazon would result in a significant number of Thursday night games exclusively on Prime Video and represent the league's deepest foray into streaming, WSJ reported, citing sources familiar with the matter.If completed, the deal will not take effect until after the 2022 season, the report said.Amazon did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment, while the NFL declined to comment.Last week, the Sports Business Journal reported a media rights deal between NFL and Walt Disney's ESPN and ABC channels. The NFL denied the report, however, and deemed it incorrect.VIDEO1:2201:22NFL digital rights are Amazon's to win, says LightShed's Rich GreenfieldSquawk Box

2021/02/12, In this articleAMZNNew York State Attorney General Letitia James speaks during a press conference announcing a lawsuit to dissolve the NRA on August 06, 2020 in New York City.Michael M. Santiago | Getty ImagesAmazon on Friday sued New York Attorney General Letitia James to block her from regulating its workplace safety response to the Covid pandemic, which Amazon says is an area already governed by federal law.The filing is an unusual move that shows Amazon is willing to go up against regulators as it faces legal challenges.Amazon's lawsuit seeks to preempt what is says is a threat by James to sue the company "if it does not immediately agree to a list of demands, many of which have no connection to health and safety and have no factual or legal basis."Amazon workers demanded more action from the company early in the pandemic to protect them from the virus. In March, a group of Staten Island warehouse workers led by Chris Smalls protested Amazon's unwillingness to close the facility for cleaning after a worker at the site tested positive. An Amazon spokesperson said at the time that it was unnecessary to close the site for cleaning but that it was following guidelines from health authorities and asked those who had been in close contact with the affected worker to stay home with pay for two weeks.Amazon fired Smalls last year following the strike, though the company said he was fired for breaching Covid safety protocols. Amazon said Smalls violated social-distancing guidelines and failed to self-isolate after coming into close contact with another worker who tested positive for the virus.James previously has said that Smalls' termination was "disgraceful." She later said in a letter to the company that its health measures responding to Covid-19 "are so inadequate that they may violate several provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Act," according to a copy obtained by Reuters.Sources since have told CNBC that James' investigators have interviewed Amazon workers from facilities around the state, with a focus on claims of employee retaliation.The company asked a Brooklyn federal court judge Friday to grant an injunction asserting that James lacks the legal authority to regulate both workplace safety issues and claims of retaliation against Amazon employees who have protested working conditions during the coronavirus pandemic.James quickly accused Amazon's suit of being "nothing more than a sad attempt to distract from the facts and shirk accountability for its failures to protect hardworking employees from a deadly virus.""Let me be clear: We will not be intimidated by anyone, especially corporate bullies that put profits over the health and safety of working people," James said in a statement."We remain undeterred in our efforts to protect workers from exploitation and will continue to review all of our legal options."Amazon, in its suit, claimed the company has gone above and beyond recommended procedures for limiting the risk of Covid-19 spread in its New York order fulfillment centers.The company also said that James' demand for reinstatement of Smalls, the former warehouse worker who led the strike, is unreasonable.The company has reportedly been facing an investigation by federal authorities as well, probing its competitive practices.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.WATCH: Andy Jassy set to inherit Amazon's antitrust scrutiny, regulatory riskVIDEO3:1303:13Andy Jassy set to inherit Amazon's antitrust scrutiny, regulatory riskTech

2021/02/02, VIDEO0:2800:28Andy Jassy to become Amazon CEO, Jeff Bezos to become executive chairmanClosing BellAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos will leave his post later this year, turning the helm over to the company's top cloud executive, Andy Jassy, according to an announcement Tuesday. Bezos will transition to executive chairman of Amazon's board.Bezos, 57, founded Amazon in 1994 and has since morphed the one-time online bookstore into a mega-retailer with global reach in a slew of different categories from gadgets to groceries to streaming. Amazon surpassed a $1 trillion market cap under Bezos' leadership in January of last year — it's now worth more than $1.6 trillion.The company had kept its succession plans quiet, though onlookers speculated that either Jassy or Jeff Wilke, CEO of Amazon's worldwide consumer business, would be Bezos' eventual successor. In August Amazon announced Wilke will retire in 2021. Jassy, 53, will become CEO in the third quarter.Jassy joined Amazon in 1997 and has led Amazon's Web Services cloud team since its inception. AWS continues to drive much of Amazon's profit."I'm excited to announce that this Q3 I'll transition to Executive Chair of the Amazon Board and Andy Jassy will become CEO," Bezos said in a letter to employees. "In the Exec Chair role, I intend to focus my energies and attention on new products and early initiatives. Andy is well known inside the company and has been at Amazon almost as long as I have. He will be an outstanding leader, and he has my full confidence."VIDEO8:5008:50Celebrity CEOs don't guarantee profitsInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.The news came alongside an earnings report in which Amazon posted its first $100 billion quarter. AWS, under Jassy, reported 28% revenue growth for the fourth quarter. About 52% of Amazon's operating income was attributed to AWS as of October 2020.Shares of Amazon were up about 1% in extended trading Tuesday on the back of the earnings report and the C-suite news. The company's stock has gained about 4% so far in 2021 and is up nearly 70% in the last 12 months.Amazon's chief financial officer, Brian Olsavsky, said on a media call that the executive change was decided in consultation with Amazon's board of directors. He said Bezos will remain very involved and have his fingerprints on lots of different parts of the company. Olsavsky said Jassy is a visionary leader who will bring his own skill set but that Amazon expects a lot of continuity with the transition.Andy Jassy, CEO of Amazon Web Services.CNBCJassy will need to guide the company through antitrust concerns once he takes the reins. In October, after a 16-month investigation into competitive practices at big tech companies including Amazon, the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust concluded that Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google enjoy monopoly power. Amazon is also facing antitrust complaints in the EU.Rep. Ken Buck, R-Colo., a member of the House Judiciary Committee, said on Twitter shortly after the announcement that he has questions for Jassy, hinting at an early hurdle when Jassy is installed.Bezos said he will stay engaged in important Amazon projects but will also have more time to focus on the Bezos Earth Fund, his Blue Origin spaceship company, The Washington Post and the Amazon Day 1 Fund."As much as I still tap dance into the office, I'm excited about this transition," Bezos said in his internal announcement. "Millions of customers depend on us for our services, and more than a million employees depend on us for their livelihoods. Being the CEO of Amazon is a deep responsibility, and it's consuming. When you have a responsibility like that, it's hard to put attention on anything else."Industry CEOs and Amazon competitors congratulated Bezos and Jassy on the coming transition, with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella calling Jassy's promotion "well-deserved."Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai offered Bezos "best wishes" on his other projects.Here's the full letter from Bezos to Amazon employees:Fellow Amazonians:I'm excited to announce that this Q3 I'll transition to Executive Chair of the Amazon Board and Andy Jassy will become CEO. In the Exec Chair role, I intend to focus my energies and attention on new products and early initiatives. Andy is well known inside the company and has been at Amazon almost as long as I have. He will be an outstanding leader, and he has my full confidence.This journey began some 27 years ago. Amazon was only an idea, and it had no name. The question I was asked most frequently at that time was, "What's the internet?" Blessedly, I haven't had to explain that in a long while.Today, we employ 1.3 million talented, dedicated people, serve hundreds of millions of customers and businesses, and are widely recognized as one of the most successful companies in the world.How did that happen? Invention. Invention is the root of our success. We've done crazy things together, and then made them normal. We pioneered customer reviews, 1-Click, personalized recommendations, Prime's insanely-fast shipping, Just Walk Out shopping, the Climate Pledge, Kindle, Alexa, marketplace, infrastructure cloud computing, Career Choice, and much more. If you get it right, a few years after a surprising invention, the new thing has become normal. People yawn. And that yawn is the greatest compliment an inventor can receive.I don't know of another company with an invention track record as good as Amazon's, and I believe we are at our most inventive right now. I hope you are as proud of our inventiveness as I am. I think you should be.As Amazon became large, we decided to use our scale and scope to lead on important social issues. Two high-impact examples: our $15 minimum wage and the Climate Pledge. In both cases, we staked out leadership positions and then asked others to come along with us. In both cases, it's working. Other large companies are coming our way. I hope you're proud of that as well.I find my work meaningful and fun. I get to work with the smartest, most talented, most ingenious teammates. When times have been good, you've been humble. When times have been tough, you've been strong and supportive, and we've made each other laugh. It is a joy to work on this team.As much as I still tap dance into the office, I'm excited about this transition. Millions of customers depend on us for our services, and more than a million employees depend on us for their livelihoods. Being the CEO of Amazon is a deep responsibility, and it's consuming. When you have a responsibility like that, it's hard to put attention on anything else. As Exec Chair I will stay engaged in important Amazon initiatives but also have the time and energy I need to focus on the Day 1 Fund, the Bezos Earth Fund, Blue Origin, The Washington Post, and my other passions. I've never had more energy, and this isn't about retiring. I'm super passionate about the impact I think these organizations can have.Amazon couldn't be better positioned for the future. We are firing on all cylinders, just as the world needs us to. We have things in the pipeline that will continue to astonish. We serve individuals and enterprises, and we've pioneered two complete industries and a whole new class of devices. We are leaders in areas as varied as machine learning and logistics, and if an Amazonian's idea requires yet another new institutional skill, we're flexible enough and patient enough to learn it.Keep inventing, and don't despair when at first the idea looks crazy. Remember to wander. Let curiosity be your compass. It remains Day 1.Jeff

2021/02/03, Andy Jassy, chief executive officer of web services at Amazon.com Inc., listens during the Amazon Web Services Summit in San Francisco on April 19, 2017.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos will step down from his role later this year, following his epic run growing the company from nothing into a $1.6 trillion technology behemoth.His successor is Andy Jassy, the longtime executive who serves as the CEO of the company's wildly profitable cloud business, Amazon Web Services.So, what kind of company is Jassy inheriting from Bezos? While no one thinks Amazon's best days are behind it and Bezos is getting out before things go downhill, the company's size and influence have led to increased scrutiny along with the rest of Big Tech."Andy's got a promotion, and his job now includes testifying to Congress, so good luck with that," former Amazon Vice President Tim Bray told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" in an interview Wednesday. Bray later added: "Andy's a smart guy. He's a good leader. I suspect he'll do well. But let's not claim it's going to be an easy job."Here are the biggest issues Jassy will inherit when he takes over.Amazon is a target in antitrust investigationsAmazon is a likely next target for regulators, state attorneys general and lawmakers who are increasing their antitrust scrutiny on Big Tech companies. Facebook and Google were sued in the U.S. last year for alleged antitrust violations. But Amazon could be up next this year as investigations throughout the U.S. and EU continue.And it won't be Bezos taking the heat in the lawsuits and congressional hearings any more. He'll get to skate by as Jassy takes the tough questions and scrutiny.Lawmakers are already on alert. Shortly after Amazon announced Jassy would be the new CEO, Rep. Ken Buck, R-Colo., a member of the House Subcommittee on Antitrust, tweeted that he'd like to question Jassy. This is the same House subcommittee that released that epic report last year laying out alleged antitrust violations by Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook.Third-party sellersMuch of the antitrust investigations into Amazon focus on its relationship with third-party sellers. These sellers make up a large percentage of overall sales on Amazon, but many have complained and struggled with the constraints Amazon puts on the platform.Most notably, there's antitrust concern around Amazon's promotion of its own competing products ranging from clothing to toilet paper in search results and placement on the site. Amazon has repeatedly denied it favors its own products over others.Warehouse workers are unionizingAmazon faces its first major unionization effort in several years. On Feb. 8, workers at one of Amazon's warehouses in Alabama will begin voting on whether to form a union.Amazon has done its best within its legal limits to quell the unionization efforts, and we'll know the result when votes are counted March 30. If successful, it could spur more workers across the country to unionize as well, an issue Jassy will have to tackle as he manages a global workforce of more than 1 million employees.AWS faces more competition in the cloudJassy's baby, AWS, is still the dominant cloud computing platform. According to the latest analysis from research firm Canalys, 33% of cloud spending in Q4 2020 went to Amazon. But Microsoft saw its market share grow to 20% of computing spend in the quarter and posted impressive 50% growth year over year for the quarter for its Azure cloud. Google Cloud is a distant third in terms of market share, and it's still showing steep losses despite its growth. But Google continues to find big cloud deals, like its recent partnership with Ford.AWS is Amazon's magical money-printing machine. It had an early start, but the other players are finally gaining ground. Jassy's big challenge will be to maintain AWS' dominance and profitability, which fuel investment in the rest of Amazon's empire.Bezos is still bossJust because Bezos won't be CEO doesn't mean he'll disappear from Amazon completely. When Jassy takes over later this year, Bezos will become executive chairman of Amazon's board, and Jassy will have to report to him.Bezos is still a major shareholder of Amazon and his immense wealth is tied to the stock's performance. He has a huge incentive to keep things running smoothly.It's similar to the structure Disney set up when former CEO Bob Iger stepped aside last year and became executive chairman of the company's board, supervising new CEO Bob Chapek throughout the transition. So, although Bezos won't be managing Amazon day to day, his influence won't go away with Jassy in charge.VIDEO0:2800:28Andy Jassy to become Amazon CEO, Jeff Bezos to become executive chairmanClosing Bell

2021/02/02, Wall Street analysts believe Amazon will cement its position as the main beneficiary of the coronavirus when the company reports fourth-quarter earnings on Tuesday after the bell.Shares of the company are down 9% since its October earnings compared to the S&P 500 which is up just over 15%But analysts also say investors shouldn't worry about the stock as the e-commerce giant's momentum is likely here to stay.The company is coming off a robust holiday season and analysts expect the report to reflect that.Other items to watch include, international expansion, Prime member growth, Amazon Web Services revenue, and an update on the impact of the pandemic on spending.Here's what analysts expect from Amazon's earnings:

2021/02/03, Jeff Bezos, head of Amazon, can be seen on the fringes of the company's novelties event.Andrej Sokolow | picture alliance | Getty ImagesAmazon's fourth quarter earnings surprised Wall Street analysts in more ways than one.The e-commerce giant reported one of its most impressive and biggest quarters to date beating on earnings and sales estimates on Tuesday after the bell and leaving its mark as the main beneficiary of the coronavirus.And even though the news that Amazon CEO and founder Jeff Bezos would step aside later this year was shocking to some, not much is likely to derail the stock, according to analysts. Andy Jassy, who built Amazon's cloud business, will be taking over.The stock is mostly flat in midday trading.Here's what analysts are saying about the company's earnings report and the Bezos transition:

2021/02/08, In this articleSHLXAMZNAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos announces the co-founding of The Climate Pledge at the National Press Club on September 19, 2019, in Washington.Paul Morigi | Getty Images | AmazonLONDON — Amazon announced Monday it plans to buy half of the energy produced by a huge new wind farm in the Netherlands. Shell and Eneco secured the right to build the 759 megawatt wind farm in the North Sea last July, and Amazon said it would now purchase more than 380 MW of its output to power its operations in Europe.  Amazon said the "Amazon-Shell HKN Offshore Wind Project" will be its largest single-site renewable energy project yet. The offshore wind farm is expected to be operational by 2023.Located 18.5 kilometers off the Dutch coast and covering an area of 125 square kilometers, the wind farm will be operated by the CrossWind Consortium, which is a joint venture between Shell and Eneco.It will reportedly feature 69 wind turbines from Siemens Gamesa that have a capacity of 11 MW and a rotor diameter of 200 meters.The offshore wind farm will include five technology prototypes that have the potential to be implemented at full scale in the future, including a floating solar park and "optimally tuned turbines."Nat Sahlstrom, director of Amazon Energy at Amazon Web Services, told CNBC that the company is using its "size and scale" to try and make a difference."We are working with energy companies across the globe to bring on new wind and solar renewable energy projects," said Sahlstrom via email. "We are also focusing on innovation and efficiency and looking at how we can use emerging technologies to help advance our climate goals."Tech goes greenLike other tech giants, Amazon is looking to use its billions to pay for more renewable sources of energy and reduce its carbon footprint.The company's data centers around the world use vast amounts of electricity to perform computing tasks for Amazon and other companies.Over the years, Greenpeace has accused Amazon of being relatively secretive about the energy sources it uses to power the centers, which are operated by Amazon Web Services. AWS has denied the allegations.Amazon has also been criticized for increasing pollution with its planes and vans, and for using excessive amounts of cardboard when packaging its products. Amazon says that its packaging is 100% renewable and that it doesn't use plastic clamshells and wire ties.Amazon said the Netherlands project will bring it closer to its goal of being net-zero carbon by 2040 and allow it to run off 100% renewable energy by 2025, which is five years earlier than it previously planned.The company said it now has 187 solar and wind projects worldwide. That includes 125 solar rooftop installations on its enormous warehouses, which it calls fulfilment centers.The largest solar rooftop installation in Europe is in the U.K. and it's equivalent to 28 soccer pitches, meaning it can produce enough power for 700 homes for one year, Amazon said.The company added that its renewable energy projects now generate more than 6.9 gigawatts and deliver more than 20 million megawatt hours of energy annually.Amazon says it is the largest corporate buyer of renewable energy in the world.

2021/02/05, In this articleAMZNPeter Endig | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon on Friday lost its push to postpone a closely watched union vote at a sprawling Alabama warehouse, allowing 6,000 workers to decide the first major unionization effort within the company since 2014.The decision by the National Labor Relations Board involved an appeal by Amazon last month to block a mail-in vote by workers at the Bessemer, Alabama, warehouse on whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union.The company had asked the NLRB to review aspects of its earlier decision and pressed for an in-person election, citing flaws in the agency's definition of what constitutes a coronavirus outbreak.In its latest ruling, the NLRB said Amazon's appeal raised "no substantial issues warranting review.""The Employer's Motion to Stay the Election Pending Review is also denied as moot," the board said.By denying Amazon's appeal, the NLRB will allow Amazon workers at the warehouse to begin voting by mail starting Monday. Ballots must be received by the NLRB's regional office by March 29, and counting will begin the following day.The last major unionization effort within Amazon was in 2014, when repair technicians at a Delaware warehouse failed to garner enough votes to join a union. Since then, however, protests tied to Prime Day, the coronavirus pandemic and other events have laid the groundwork for new organizing efforts within parts of its workforce across the country.The unionization effort in Alabama has emerged as a protracted labor battle at Amazon, with the company hiring the same law firm it used to assist with negotiations during the union drive in Delaware.Amazon has also set up a website to advertise its position on the Alabama warehouse union drive, urging workers to "do it without dues," referring to the cost of membership when joining a union.The company has ramped up communications with workers in recent weeks at the BHM1 Bessemer warehouse about the union. Amazon has held mandatory meetings, distributed flyers throughout the facility and sent text messages in that time.Union President Stuart Applebaum heralded the NLRB's decision as a victory in the Amazon workers' fight to organize and criticized the company's push to hold an in-person election as a threat to workers health and safety amid the pandemic."Once again Amazon workers have won another fight in their effort to win a union voice," Applebaum said in a statement. "Today's decision proves that it's long past time that Amazon start respecting its own employees; and allow them to cast their votes without intimidation and interference."Amazon spokeswoman Heather Knox told CNBC in a statement that the company stands by its effort to push for an in-person election and said it will continue to insist on measures for a fair election that allows for a majority of its employees to participate. In its appeal to the NLRB, Amazon had expressed concerns that a mail-in election could lead to a depressed turnout and could raise the risk of fraud."Our goal is for as many of our employees as possible to vote and we're disappointed by the decision by the NLRB not to provide the most fair and effective format to achieve maximum employee participation," Knox said.VIDEO19:1619:16How Amazon fends off unions as labor rights groups rally workers to protestTech

2021/02/02, In this articleAMZNVIDEO1:2101:21Amazon beats top and bottom line in Q4, company books $100B in revenue for first timeClosing BellAmazon announced in its earnings report for the fourth quarter of 2020 that Amazon Web Services CEO Andy Jassy will replace Jeff Bezos as Amazon CEO during the third quarter of this year. Bezos will become executive chairman.The company also delivered its largest quarter by revenue of all time at $125.56 billion, pushing it past the symbolic $100 billion mark for the first time.Shares of Amazon were up 1% in extended trading.Here are the results:Earnings: $14.09 vs $7.23 per share forecast by RefinitivRevenue: $125.56 billion vs $119.7 billion forecast by RefinitivBezos announced his decision to step down in the earnings release and in a memo to employees, noting that he will focus on "new products and early initiatives" in his new role, including the Day One Fund, Bezos Earth Fund, The Washington Post and his private space company Blue Origin."If you do it right, a few years after a surprising invention, the new thing has become normal. People yawn. That yawn is the greatest compliment an inventor can receive," Bezos wrote. "When you look at our financial results, what you're actually seeing are the long-run cumulative results of invention. Right now I see Amazon at its most inventive ever, making it an optimal time for this transition."During a call with investors, Amazon CFO Brian Olsavsky said the company has a "highly effective" succession plan in place that will enable a smooth transition for Jassy to take the helm as CEO.Jassy now has a chance to "put an imprint on Amazon," Olsavsky said, though he noted Bezos won't be far away from the company in his new role as executive chairman."I will reiterate that Jeff is not leaving. He is getting a new job," Olsavsky said. "He will be involved in many large one-way-door issues, as we say, one-way doors meaning the more important decisions things like acquisitions, things like strategies, and going into grocery and other things."So, Jeff's always been involved with that, and that's where we'll keep his time focused on," he added.After several months of heavy investments, Amazon said it expects coronavirus-related costs to decelerate to about $2 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, down from roughly $4 billion in the third quarter of this year and more than $2 billion in the second quarter.Olsavsky attributed the step down in Covid costs to a shift in volume. "We're expecting volumes to drop about 25% from Q4 to Q1," he added.The company also experienced higher costs in the fourth quarter after it paid a one-time $300 bonus to front-line employees in November of last year.The company forecast operating income of $3 billion to $6.5 billion in the fiscal first quarter, assuming the roughly $2 billion of costs related to Covid-19.Amazon said sales in the first quarter will be between $100 billion and $106 billion, a slowdown from the fourth quarter of 2020, but an increase of between 33% and 40% from a year earlier. Analysts were expecting revenue of $95.8 billion.Amazon's blockbuster fourth-quarter results were driven in part by what the company called a "record-breaking holiday season," during which it delivered more than a billion products to shoppers worldwide. Continued accelerated e-commerce demand and a pandemic-delayed Prime Day also contributed to Amazon's record revenue in the quarter.The company has gone on a hiring spree in order to keep up with the demand spike. Amazon said it hired 175,000 new full- and part-time employees in the fourth quarter alone, which is more than triple the 50,000 employees it hired in the year-ago period. Amazon now counts nearly 1.3 million employees across the globe, an increase of 63% year over year.Once again, the costs of shipping goods to consumers ticked higher, with expenses up 67% from a year earlier to $21.5 billion.Outside of its core retail business, Amazon's cloud-computing unit saw its revenue climb 28% to $12.7 billion from $9.95 billion a year earlier. That fell short of Wall Street's expectations of $12.83 billion.Amazon doesn't break out the performance of its advertising business, but that makes up the majority of its "other" category, which brought in $7.9 billion in revenue for the quarter. That's an increase of 64% from a year ago, which Olsavsky said was primarily driven by a resurgence in ad spending and Prime Day.Sales fell 8% in Amazon's physical store unit, which includes Whole Foods Market, as the pandemic has pushed shoppers to experiment with new shopping methods, including online grocery ordering.

2021/02/05, Founder of Amazon as well as space company Blue Origin, Jeff Bezos, speaks about the future of commercial space travel.Brent Lewis | Denver Post | Getty ImagesThe satellite internet projects of the two richest men on the planet continue to spar behind the scenes with federal regulators, with Amazon on Thursday clarifying its position in response to recent accusations from Elon Musk and SpaceX that Jeff Bezos' company is attempting to "stifle competition" in the sector.Representatives of Amazon spoke to Federal Communications Commission officials earlier this week, doubling down on its position that the FCC should not approve SpaceX's modification request for parts of its Starlink satellite network. Amazon and SpaceX are working to build space-based internet networks — called Kuiper and Starlink, respectively — by launching thousands of satellites into orbit, known in the industry as a constellation.While Amazon emphasized that it "supports the ability of operators to modify their system designs," the company argued that SpaceX's proposed changes to Starlink are too significant to be considered as a simple modification by the FCC. Rather, Amazon says the FCC should consider Starlink as a "newly designed system" and include it in a broader regulatory processing round that was open when SpaceX submitted the request last year."Doing so would be consistent with Commission precedent, protect the public interest, encourage coordination, and promote competition," Amazon corporate counsel Mariah Dodson Shuman wrote in a letter to the FCC.Amazon is not alone in pushing back on Starlink's modification request, with satellite operators Viasat, SES and Kepler Communications also filing objections.VIDEO17:4017:40Behind SpaceX and Amazon plans launch thousands of satellitesTechThe FCC dispute between SpaceX and Amazon spilled into public view last week, when Musk took to Twitter to allege that his competitor is attempting "to hamstring Starlink," adding that Kuiper "is at best several years away from operation." While Amazon has yet to announce when its first Kuiper satellites will launch, the FCC's authorization of the system last year requires that the company deploy half of its planned satellites within six years. That represents Amazon deploying about 1,600 satellites in orbit by July 2026.SpaceX's modification request would entail moving about 2,800 satellites in the initial phase of the Starlink constellation to a lower altitude orbit than the FCC had authorized. So far the FCC has yet to make a decision on the proposal, although the regulator granted SpaceX a smaller request to deploy 10 satellites last month into a lower than planned orbit.60 Starlink satellites deploy into orbit after the company's 17th mission.SpaceXAmazon's concern with SpaceX's modification focuses around issues of safety and interference, with the company arguing that the Starlink change "would significantly increase interference to Kuiper" and other satellite systems, while also making Starlink "more susceptible to interference from Kuiper" and others.SpaceX Director David Goldman told the FCC in January that Starlink's modification would "be able to achieve the advantages of lower altitudes without causing a significant increase in interference." Additionally, Goldman highlighted that Amazon representatives have had "30 meetings to oppose SpaceX" but "no meetings to authorize its own system," which he interpreted as an attempt to stifle competition.But, while SpaceX argued that Amazon and other companies "cherry pick data ... to reach misleading claims of interference," Kuiper's Shuman alleged that SpaceX "omitted" comparative data from its analysis. Shuman said that data shows Starlink's modification "increases interference into Kuiper" connectivity stations on the ground.A Project Kuiper engineer sets up a a prototype antenna for a test.AmazonBoth companies' satellite networks represent ambitious projects, with SpaceX, like Amazon, saying its network will cost about $10 billion or more to build. SpaceX leadership has previously estimated that Starlink could bring in as much as $30 billion a year, or more than 10 times the annual revenue of its rocket business.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2021/02/02, Contractors working for the Amazon Inc. Flex program load packages into vehicles to deliver to customers in San Francisco.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon will pay $61.7 million to settle allegations by the Federal Trade Commission that it failed to pay Flex delivery drivers the full amount of tips received from customers.The commission voted 4-0 in favor of the settlement, which was announced Tuesday. In the complaint, the FTC alleges that Amazon in 2016 shifted from paying drivers the promised rate of $18 to $25 per hour, plus tips, to paying drivers a lower hourly rate.Amazon "intentionally failed" to notify drivers of this change and used the tips to make up the difference between the promised rate and the new lower hourly rate, according to the FTC."Rather than passing along 100% of customers' tips to drivers, as it had promised to do, Amazon used the money itself," said Daniel Kaufman, acting director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection, in a statement. "Our action today returns to drivers the tens of millions of dollars in tips that Amazon misappropriated, and requires Amazon to get drivers' permission before changing its treatment of tips in the future."Amazon spokesperson Rena Lunak told CNBC in a statement that the company disagrees with the FTC's claim that the pay model for drivers was unclear."While we disagree that the historical way we reported pay to drivers was unclear, we added additional clarity in 2019 and are pleased to put this matter behind us," Lunak said. "Amazon Flex delivery partners play an important role in serving customers every day, which is why they earn among the best in the industry at over $25 per hour on average."Amazon Flex operates similarly to Uber, in that contracted delivery drivers pick up shifts on demand to deliver Amazon packages or Whole Foods orders to customers' doorsteps. The service, launched in 2015, uses drivers to deliver packages from their own vehicles and operates in more than 50 cities across the U.S.In its complaint, the FTC further alleges that Amazon sought to obscure the change in policy from drivers, after it received hundreds of complaints from drivers who had become suspicious that their overall earnings decreased.Employees at Amazon appeared to recognize the risks of how the company handled the change, referring to it as an "Amazon reputation tinderbox" and "a huge PR risk to Amazon," the FTC said.Amazon continued using the new pricing model until August 2019, following the launch of the FTC's investigation. The company returned to a pay model where it pays Flex drivers a base rate, plus 100% of tips, according to the FTC.As part of the settlement, Amazon is required to pay more than $61.7 million to the FTC, which will be used by the agency to compensate Flex drivers. The settlement also prohibits Amazon from misrepresenting any driver's likely income or rate of pay, how much of their tips will be paid to them, as well as whether the amount paid by a customer is a tip. Amazon is also prohibited from making any changes to how a driver's tips are used as compensation without first getting consent from drivers.The settlement comes as on-demand delivery services DoorDash and Instacart have also attracted public scrutiny for their tipping practices.Last November, DoorDash reached a $2.5 million settlement with the attorney general of the District of Columbia over claims it misled consumers and pocketed workers' tips. Washington, D.C. Attorney General Karl Racine announced charges against DoorDash after his office found the company used customers' tips to offset the minimum payment owed to workers. DoorDash said in 2019 it had changed its tipping model.Similarly, Racine in August of last year filed a lawsuit against Instacart, claiming the company deceived customers into thinking an optional service fee would be collected as a tip for workers and pocketed it for itself instead.VIDEO15:2315:23As Prime One Day shipping expands, here's what it's like to be an Amazon Flex delivery driverTech

2021/02/03, In this articleAMZNSaul Loeb | AFP | Getty ImagesLONDON — Amazon is well positioned to capitalize on a hot new trend in food delivery: "dark," "ghost," "delivery-only" or "cloud" kitchens.  Often located on industrial sites in shipping containers or warehouses, these delivery-only kitchens provide restaurants with another outlet to get their food to customers. They've been set up worldwide over the last few years and those behind them say they can take the strain off existing restaurant kitchens.U.K. start-up Deliveroo claims to have pioneered the idea for these kitchens and it is planning to invest heavily in them over the next 12 months.Assuming all goes well, Amazon should benefit from any success that Deliveroo has with its delivery-only kitchens. That's because Amazon piled in on Deliveroo in May 2019, leading a $575 million funding round into the London-headquartered company in exchange for a 16% minority stake of the business.Peel Hunt analyst James Lockyer told CNBC that Amazon "doesn't often do things where it doesn't believe it can be #1 or #2."Putting an end to 'postcode food envy'Founded in 2013 by Will Shu and Greg Orlowski, Deliveroo uses a network of 80,000 freelance couriers to deliver food from over 100,000 restaurants (and dark kitchens) to people's homes and offices.Deliveroo launched its first delivery-only kitchens, branded Deliveroo Editions, in May 2017, saying they would put an end to "postcode food envy" as they allow restaurants to expand into new areas.VIDEO9:2409:24Dark kitchens: Where does your food delivery really come from?CNBC Reports"My bet was that this was going to be the future of food delivery," said CEO Shu in December in reference to delivery-only kitchens.Deliveroo currently has 14 Editions sites in the U.K. and 32 worldwide, with hubs in Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong, UAE, Netherlands, Spain, and France. In total, there are approximately 220 kitchens spread across all of Deliveroo's Editions sites.It won't be stopping there though: Deliveroo is planning to double the number of Editions sites to 64 in 2021.A useful assetDespite their apparent success, not everyone is a fan of Editions. Objectors have accused Deliveroo of bypassing planning rules and unlawfully cooking thousands of takeout meals at its delivery-only kitchens, and some residents have complained about an increase in the number of delivery riders operating in their neighborhoods.Deliveroo says that it works closely with local authorities to ensure it has the correct planning permission. It also claims that it puts management plans in place to avoid disturbance to residents.But with takeouts now the only viable option for many restaurants due to coronavirus lockdowns, dark kitchens have become a useful asset for some restaurant owners.Tim Vasilakis, the founder of The Athenian, said his restaurant had to change its business model when the first U.K. lockdown was announced in March, 2020."Overnight we turned into an online-only restaurant," he said. "In the months since, we used all of our resources to expand into Editions kitchens, as a safe way to continue trading through volatile conditions."VIDEO1:4901:49Deliveroo CEO welcomes competition after restaurants try to outmaneuver his appSquawk Box EuropeWith the exception of a rocky period at the beginning of the pandemic, Deliveroo had a bumper year in 2020, with Shu saying in December that it had been profitable at the operating level for the six months prior. Deliveroo hasn't published its full results for 2020 yet but in 2019 the company's revenue grew to £771 million ($1 billion). It's expected to be one of the U.K.'s biggest tech IPOs this year, with reports suggesting it could be valued at up to $13 billion in a listing on the London Stock Exchange.The Amazon 'superapp'While Amazon is only a minority investor, some analysts believe that it may look to form a closer relationship with Deliveroo. Amazon previously operated its own online takeout business, called Amazon Restaurants, but it shuttered U.K. operations in 2018 and closed down completely the following year.In July 2019, the U.K.'s antitrust regulator, the Competition and Markets Authority, argued that Deliveroo's cash injection from Amazon could reduce competition by removing the possibility of the e-commerce giant re-entering the market, while Deliveroo could "cease to be distinct." It froze the investment for almost a year while it investigated.To the disappointment of rivals Just Eat and Domino's Pizza, the deal was approved by the CMA in August after Deliveroo said it could go out of business without the capital.Jonathan Branton, a partner and head of EU competition at law firm DWF, told CNBC that he doesn't think Amazon will end up monopolizing food delivery. "I would imagine there will always be others investing in this with alternative offerings and trying to gain a foothold," he said.Branton said he can't see restaurants disappearing either "as they are as much about the onsite experience as the food."Peel Hunt's Lockyer said Amazon could one day try to put Deliveroo into its own app to create a sort of "superapp" just like Uber did when it folded the UberEats app into its main app."It would obviously help them," he said. "That's not happened but it wouldn't be unreasonable given that you go in there and you've got Prime, you've got Fresh, you've got Morrisons already in there. Why not? They've done it in the past with Restaurants."He added: "Having a superapp, or an app that has existing eyeballs, and subsuming another service is much easier than trying to build a customer base organically. Could Amazon include Deliveroo in its app? It would seem a very positive thing to do. It might not work because the CMA might take note again and it would have to be done in the right way. But logistically and strategically, it makes sense."Uber Eats, one of Deliveroo's biggest rivals, shut down its one and only dark kitchen in Paris last summer as part of a drive to cut costs and focus on profitability.Others, however, are doubling down on delivery-only kitchens. DoorDash, another food delivery company, opened its first delivery only kitchen in October 2019, while car park operator Reef has set up delivery-only kitchens in its parking lots since the pandemic. Meanwhile, Uber co-founder Travis Kalanick has launched his own dark kitchens business called CloudKitchens, which has expanded across the U.S., Europe, and Asia.

2021/03/16, The Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max is unveiled during a virtual product launch.Daniel Acker | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesCNBC's "Halftime Report" is bringing its segment "Ask Halftime" to CNBC Pro.The contributors answered questions from CNBC Pro subscribers, like which technology stock might be due for a pause and what's the next big winner in the chip sector.Jenny Harrington, chief executive officer of Gilman Hill Asset Management, discussed investing vs. trading with stocks like Bristol-Myers Squibb.Plus, Michael Farr, President and CEO of Farr, Miller & Washington, advises on whether or not to buy Apple shares given its recent pullback.Watch the full video here:

2021/01/23, US President Joe Biden speaks about the Covid-19 response as US Vice President Kamala Harris (L) looks on before signing executive orders in the State Dining Room of the White House in Washington, DC, on January 21, 2021.Mandel Ngan | AFP | Getty ImagesLike many in the tech industry, Amazon has cozied up to the Democratic Party. Its political action committee and company executives are among those who threw their money behind President Joe Biden on the campaign trail, while Amazon's top spokesperson, Jay Carney, has longstanding ties to Biden.But that doesn't guarantee the next four years of the Biden administration will be smooth sailing for the online retail giant. Antitrust reform, stronger privacy standards and a renewed push for workers' rights are just a few of the issues that could be on the new administration's agenda.Here's what's at stake for Amazon in the Biden administration: New union pushAfter a rocky relationship with Trump's administration, organized labor is hopeful that Biden will make good on his promises to be "the most pro-union president." Amazon is likely to keep a close eye on the new administration's moves on the labor front, as it faces a renewed push from unions to organize its warehouse workers.Biden has made empowering workers a key tenet of his labor agenda, which also proposes various reforms to labor laws and expanding worker protections. His plan includes policies that would consider a company's labor record when awarding federal contracts and codify into law an Obama-era change to National Labor Relations Board rules aimed at speeding up union election campaigns. Biden has also voiced support for the Protecting the Right to Organize Act, which passed the House last February and would levy fines against companies that interfere with workers' organizing efforts. While the bill is unlikely to pass in the Senate, it could generate new scrutiny of Amazon's efforts to track workplace unrest, as well as its labor practices.Former Vice President Joe Biden speaks at a rally organized by UFCW Union members to support Stop and Shop employees on strike throughout the region at the Stop and Shop in Dorchester, Massachusetts on April 18, 2019.Joseph Prezioso | AFP | Getty Images"I would say [the PRO Act] has very little chance of passing," said Gordon Lafer, a labor studies professor at the University of Oregon and a research associate at the Economic Policy Institute. "So other than that, the question is what could the Biden-appointed Labor Board do unilaterally without needing legislation? There is a lot they could do that would be significant."From a high level, Biden's support of the labor movement has the potential to reignite union membership after years of steady declines. This could pose a threat to Amazon, which has staunchly opposed unions in its workforce. Amazon's appetite for unions is currently being tested in Alabama, where workers at its Bessemer warehouse are set to vote next month on whether to join the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. While Biden and Amazon may not see eye to eye on unions, the company is in agreement with Biden on one issue: raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour. In a tweet replying to Biden last week, Amazon touted its $15 minimum wage and said it hopes to work with the administration on making it the national standard.An Amazon spokesperson didn't respond to questions seeking clarity on how it would work with the Biden administration on minimum wage issues. Greater OSHA oversightBiden has also telegraphed plans to expand workplace protections by restoring some Obama-era reforms to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which were rolled back by the Trump administration. Biden plans to increase the number of OSHA investigators and require companies to electronically report their workplace injuries, among other changes.This could mean that Amazon and other companies face stricter enforcement of OSHA standards. With more investigators on staff, the agency may be more likely to take up OSHA complaints filed by employees and inspect facilities, as well as levy fines against companies that are found to be in violation of OSHA rules, said Debbie Berkowitz, a former OSHA official who now works for the National Employment Law Project."The enforcement switch at OSHA has been turned off, but it'll get turned back on," Berkowitz said. "OSHA will again respond to complaints with inspections and there will be a willingness to enforce the law to protect workers."Amazon's workplace safety record continues to be a topic of controversy, including during the coronavirus pandemic. California's attorney general is investigating working conditions at Amazon's California warehouses during the pandemic, while some lawmakers have scrutinized the company's response to the coronavirus crisis.Amazon workers at Amazon's Staten Island warehouse strike in demand that the facility be shut down and cleaned after one staffer tested positive for the coronavirus on March 30, 2020 in New York.Angela Weiss | AFP | Getty ImagesThe company has previously said it continues to invest in creating a safer work environment at its facilities.Amazon has bolstered its workplace safety team with a number of people who have ties to OSHA and employment litigation as scrutiny of its warehouse working conditions continues to grow. The company added another staffer from the agency to the workplace safety team this month when it brought on Madeleine T. Le, a former OSHA lawyer, as senior governance and compliance manager."Amazon has lawyered up for this," Berkowitz said. "They are lawyering up to start fighting OSHA inspections."Amazon spokeswoman Rachael Lighty said the company has expanded its workplace health and safety team as part of its efforts to ensure its workplaces are "leading in state-of-the-art safety investments, training and education, and safety programs.""Today, our global workplace health and safety team is comprised of more than 5,000 employees who use Amazon's innovation, technology and data insights, combined with exceptional experience and leadership in the safety industry, to ensure the highest standards to keep our employees safe," Lighty said.Breaking up Big TechBiden has offered few hints on how he would approach antitrust issues, beyond expressing concern over the power Silicon Valley giants wield in tech and other industries. But there are signs he will take a tougher stance on reining in Big Tech than the Obama administration, which has been criticized for its close ties to tech companies. While Google and Facebook are currently the focus of investigations on the federal level, Amazon is unlikely to escape antitrust scrutiny with Biden in the Oval Office. Amazon is already being probed by Federal Trade Commission officials over its business practices in retail and cloud computing, according to reports from several outlets. Last year, the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust found that Amazon has monopoly power over third-party sellers. Amazon and its rivals, including Facebook, Google and Apple, also face a separate probe from the Justice Department.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos testifies before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial and Administrative Law hearing on "Online Platforms and Market Power" in the Rayburn House office Building on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC on July 29, 2020.Mandel Ngan | AFP | Getty ImagesGroups that are critical of Amazon's power are closely watching who Biden appoints to key posts handling tech policy matters, fearing that any influence from Silicon Valley could derail antitrust investigations or diminish scrutiny. Alex Harman, competition policy advocate at advocacy group Public Citizen, said he expressed those concerns in meetings with Biden's agency review teams last November. "This was a problem in the Obama administration that I was part of," Harman said. "There was a flavor of 'Google is great and a Google revolving door is a positive thing.' That is no longer OK."Section 230 under attackAnother tech policy that's likely to be in focus in the new administration is Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which shields tech companies from being liable for what users post on their platforms. Talks of Section 230 reform are often targeted toward social media companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google's YouTube. But the law affords Amazon and other e-commerce companies some protections as well. Similar to social media companies, the law protects e-commerce sites from being held liable for any user-generated content on their platforms, like product descriptions or customer reviews. Amazon has invoked Section 230 as a defense in some product liability lawsuits concerning faulty products sold on its website, arguing that it merely provides the platform for third-party merchants to hawk their wares, so it's not actually the seller. The company also pointed to Section 230 in defending its decision to drop Parler, a social media site popular with Trump supporters, from its cloud-computing platform in the wake of the U.S. Capitol riot on Jan. 6.Biden has called for Section 230 to be revoked, arguing that companies should be held accountable for hosting content they know to be false. It's unclear how the Biden administration may seek to reform Section 230. Democrats and Republicans agree there are issues with the law, but they're divided on why it merits a review. Generally, Democrats hope to hold platforms more responsible for policing false speech and calls to violence, while Republicans worry about inconsistent moderation practices that censor politically conservative viewpoints.Privacy and facial recognitionWith Democrats in control of Congress, lawmakers could revive attempts to regulate facial recognition technology and establish a federal privacy law.Amazon has previously come under fire from advocacy groups, politicians and employees who have pressured the company to stop selling its facial recognition software to government agencies. Last June, Amazon imposed a one-year moratorium on facial recognition software contracts with police, but it didn't say if the ban applied to federal agencies.Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris recognized the need for changes to privacy and facial recognition laws before they entered the White House. Biden said in an interview with The New York Times last year that the U.S. "should be setting standards not unlike the Europeans are doing relative to privacy."Last year, two partisan privacy bills were introduced by Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Roger Wicker, R-Miss., and Ranking Member Maria Cantwell, D-Wash. While lawmakers agree on the need for a federal privacy law, they continue to disagree on whether the national law should preempt state bills and if individuals should be allowed to sue companies over privacy violations.Lawmakers are already examining the data Amazon collects from consumers. Last month, the Federal Trade Commission sent letters to Amazon, Facebook, Twitter and several other tech companies requiring them to hand over information about how they collect and use data.In 2019, Amazon and other members of the Business Roundtable wrote to congressional leaders saying the support the creation of a consumer data privacy law.When it comes to facial recognition, as a U.S. Senator for California, Harris expressed skepticism around facial recognition technology. Harris in 2018 wrote to three federal agencies to highlight research showing how facial recognition can produce or reinforce racial and gender bias.Amazon would be impacted by any federal limits on facial recognition technology, such as those proposed in the Facial Recognition and Biometric Technology Moratorium Act, a bill that seeks to ban federal law enforcement use of the technology.VIDEO2:1602:16Amazon bans use of its facial recognition technology by police for one yearNews VideosGroups that advocate for racial justice and privacy rights are hoping the Biden administration will take up the call to keep the technology out of the hands of law enforcement permanently."Amazon, along with other Silicon Valley companies, are raking in billions of dollars by selling this really dangerous tool to law enforcement," said Myaisha Hayes, campaign strategies director at advocacy group Media Justice. "We're hoping that with this administration we can convince more members of Congress to take police tech surveillance really seriously."

2021/02/03, In this articleAMZNAn electric Amazon delivery van from Rivian cruises down the street with the Hollywood sign in the background.AmazonAmazon is testing some of the electric delivery vans that it developed with Rivian Automotive on routes in Los Angeles, the companies announced Wednesday.In September 2019, Amazon announced it would purchase 100,000 electric delivery vehicles from Rivian as part of its aim to achieve net zero carbon emissions across its operations by 2040. Amazon started a fund, and invested in Rivian through it, as part of this pledge.The e-commerce titans debuted one version of their delivery vans in October last year. Now, Amazon says it will test the custom electric vehicles in as many as 16 different cities in 2021.In a statement sent to CNBC, Ross Rachey, director of Amazon's global fleet and products, said the electrification effort is a point of pride for the company. It has required Amazon to install thousands of electric vehicle chargers and change up the electrical design and layout of delivery facilities in North America and Europe.A driver recharges an Amazon electric delivery van from Rivian.AmazonThe company built the test fleet vehicles for Amazon in Plymouth, Michigan. Each van can drive up to 150 miles on a single charge, the companies said.The vehicles are still in a test phase, and their design and features could be tweaked ahead of the start of production, which Rivian aims for by the end of 2021.Rivian is also expected to be among the first companies to bring an all-electric pickup to market later this year.While it is still privately held, Rivian is shaping up to be a serious challenger to Tesla, and has raised about $8 billion since 2019. Light-duty trucks including delivery vans are expected to be in demand in the U.S. in coming years, and not just by Amazon. That's in part because President Biden, through his Buy America plan, has committed to replace the federal government's fleet of internal combustion engine vehicles with cleaner, quieter electrics.According to data from the General Services Agency, that federal fleet includes more than 400,000 trucks, many of them for use by the U.S. postal service. Daimler, GM, Lion Electric and others are developing, and in some cases already selling, battery electric light-duty trucks and vans.Correction: An earlier version of this story misstated the location of Rivian headquarters. The company moved from Michigan to Irvine, California, in 2020.

2021/02/02, VIDEO1:1001:10Amazon unveiled the design for its office building at HQ2 — Here's what it looks likeNews VideosAmazon on Tuesday unveiled the latest look at its second headquarters in northern Virginia.The standout feature of the design proposal for HQ2 includes a unique structure, dubbed "The Helix." Amazon described the 350-foot-tall office tower as a "spiraling vertical forest" that features outdoor walkways with trees and plants that twist up to the top of the building.The shape of the building is meant to resemble a double helix and touches on "humanity's innate connection to nature," according to architecture firm NBBJ, which is designing the structure.Amazon unveiled new renderings of its Arlington, Virginia headquarters, which include The Helix, a uniquely designed 350-foot-tall tower.Courtesy: NBBJThe Helix will serve as an alternative workspace for Amazon employees, but it will also be open to the public on some weekends each month, similar to the "Spheres," the nature-inspired centerpiece of Amazon's Seattle headquarters.Amazon said the designs make up the proposed development plans for the second phase of new construction on HQ2. If the plans receive approval from Arlington County, the company hopes to begin construction on the Helix and other office buildings on the site in 2022. Construction is expected to be complete in 2025.The project plans include three retail pavilions to feature space for restaurants, shops, outdoor eating and gathering spaces.Courtesy: NBBJThe Helix, combined with three other office buildings at the site, called PenPlace, would create roughly 2.8 million square feet of office space.Aside from office space, Amazon has set aside more than 2.5 acres of open spaces that are accessible to the public. There's an amphitheater designed for outdoor concerts, farmers' markets and other activities, as well as public green space.The campus includes 2.5 acres of public open space.Courtesy: NBBJA potential view of the retail and restaurant space in the pavilion area.Courtesy: NBBJAmazon said the site will also include retail pavilions and restaurants, in addition to other community spaces, such as a child-care center, a dog run and a food truck area.The company said the site prioritizes "walkways, landscaping and retail over motor vehicles." It plans to build protected bike lanes in the streets near the office buildings.A potential view of the retail and restaurant space in the pavilion area.Courtesy: NBBJAmazon selected Arlington as the site of HQ2, in addition to the Long Island City neighborhood of Queens, New York, as part of its well-publicized search for a second headquarters. The company announced in 2019 it would halt plans to build its new headquarters in New York after it faced pushback from local activists and City Council leaders.Last year, Amazon began building two additional, 22-story office towers in a development known as Metropolitan Park, which is located south of PenPlace.VIDEO16:0216:02Many of the reviews on Amazon are fake, here's how to spot themTech

2021/01/26, Jeff Bezos and Elon MuskGetty ImagesThe two richest men on the planet are sparring in front of federal regulators over the massive satellite internet projects their companies are developing.SpaceX CEO Elon Musk took to Twitter on Tuesday, as his company works to persuade Federal Communications Commission officials that it should allow SpaceX to move some of its Starlink satellites to lower altitudes than originally planned.Jeff Bezos' Amazon has been among companies that have disputed SpaceX's request, on the grounds that the modification would interfere with other satellites."It does not serve the public to hamstring Starlink today for an Amazon satellite system that is at best several years away from operation," Musk said in a tweet.Amazon responded to Musk's comment in a statement to CNBC."The facts are simple. We designed the Kuiper System to avoid interference with Starlink, and now SpaceX wants to change the design of its system. Those changes not only create a more dangerous environment for collisions in space, but they also increase radio interference for customers. Despite what SpaceX posts on Twitter, it is SpaceX's proposed changes that would hamstring competition among satellite systems. It is clearly in SpaceX's interest to smother competition in the cradle if they can, but it is certainly not in the public's interest," an Amazon spokesperson said.Starlink is SpaceX's plan to build an interconnected internet network with about 12,000 satellites, designed to deliver high-speed internet to anywhere on the planet. With more than 1,000 satellites so far in orbit, SpaceX began a public beta program in October. Initial service is priced at $99 a month, in addition to a $499 upfront cost to order the Starlink Kit, which includes a user terminal and Wi-Fi router to connect to the satellites.Meanwhile, Amazon has been working on its own satellite internet called Project Kuiper. It plans to launch 3,236 internet satellites into low Earth orbit — a system that would compete with Starlink. While Amazon in December passed a critical early hardware milestone for the antennas it needs to connect to the network, it has yet to begin producing or launching its satellites.The FCC in July authorized Amazon's proposal for Kuiper, which the company says it will invest more than $10 billion in to build.VIDEO17:4017:40Behind SpaceX and Amazon plans launch thousands of satellitesTechMusk's comment comes after SpaceX director David Goldman spoke with FCC officials late last week to discuss the company's proposal to move some of the Starlink satellites to lower altitudes.In a presentation to the FCC, Goldman highlighted that Amazon representatives have had "30 meetings to oppose SpaceX" but "no meetings to authorize its own system," arguing that the technology giant is attempting "to stifle competition."In December, representatives of Amazon spoke with FCC chairman Ajit Pai about SpaceX's request to modify its Starlink plans. Amazon asked that the FCC limit SpaceX's satellites to a minimum altitude of 580 kilometers until the regulator "fully evaluates the detailed record on the significant interference concerns" that Amazon believes are presented SpaceX's modification."SpaceX has indicated that it is capable of operating its system without exceeding 580 km and has not demonstrated why such a condition should not be effective immediately," Amazon corporate counsel Mariah Dodson Shuman wrote in a letter to the FCC.SpaceX owner and Tesla CEO Elon Musk (R) gestures as he arrives on the red carpet for the Axel Springer Awards ceremony, in Berlin, on December 1, 2020.Britta Pedersen | AFP | Getty ImagesBoth companies' satellite networks represent ambitious projects, with SpaceX, like Amazon, saying its network will cost about $10 billion or more to build.But SpaceX leadership estimates that Starlink could bring in as much as $30 billion a year, or more than 10 times the annual revenue of its rocket business.SpaceX earlier this month expanded its beta program to include customers in the United Kingdom and Canada. The company is looking to widely expand Starlink access internationally, with public records showing the company registered in Austria, Australia, Argentina, Brazil, France, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, South Africa and Spain.60 Starlink satellites deploy into orbit after the company's 17th mission.SpaceXSubscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2021/02/13, Tom Cormier, co-founer DropshippingUniversity.comThomas CormierMaybe you've seen videos circulating online of people who have quit their corporate jobs to pursue a dream of entrepreneurial success. One of the most popular forms nowadays revolves around a concept in e-commerce known as dropshipping. Dropshipping is a business model that allows entrepreneurs to sell products to their customers without ever having to stock inventory themselves. In this growing niche, the retailer is a middleman between buyer and supplier. There are many advantages to this method. According to a dropshipping explainer from e-commerce company Shopify, the model allows entrepreneurs to take more risks on products. Because there is no overhead for storing the product, retailers can experiment with different products and product lines.  Retailers are also not tied to a physical location, meaning they can sell products to any market in the world so long as they can find a supplier who can ship to that market. However, there are also several pitfalls. The barrier to entry is quite low, meaning that anyone with enough money saved up can enter the market, increasing competition and making it harder to stand out. The margins are also low. Because the retailer does not store nor own the product, they have to pay the third party, collecting a fraction of the selling price. Tom Cormier, or eCom Tom as he is known, is the co-founder of Dropshipping University. Cormier, who graduated with a degree in chemical engineering in 2016, was looking for a way to earn some extra money along with his paycheck. "I was like, I want some money on the side. And I think I always just had the idea that I never wanted to work full time for a job ever."Cormier's journey into dropshipping started with re-selling old video games and eventually lead to reselling cell phones — until an exchange went south and Cormier was robbed. The experience made Tom reconsider how he would earn extra money. VIDEO13:2013:20Sellers make millions dropshipping Chinese products on Facebook, TikTokTechMore from Invest in You: The ultimate side hustle guide for 2021Nearly half of worker suffer mental health issues since Covid hit, report findsMore than 8% of American adults are millionaires. Here's how they got wealthyeBay, Amazon, FacebookIn August of 2017, Cormier bought an online course on dropshipping and opened his first store on eBay. His first sale came the next morning, when he sold an $11 iPhone case for a $1 profit.Cormier says as the space gets more crowded success becomes more difficult to achieve. In 2017, dropshipping was still a fairly new concept and there is a lot more competition today.Platforms like Shopify, Amazon, and eBay are all established sites that can make it difficult to stand out. Cormier calls Facebook's Marketplace the "Wild West of dropshipping" because it's still in the "beginning stage."Cormier says he earns around $5,000 a month from his business, which comes out to $60,000 a year. As co-founder of Dropshipping University, he also teaches students how to get started and grow their business. "I have students that are absolutely killing it like $40,000 profit, like first two, three months," he said.For people interested in starting a dropshipping business, Cormier recommends starting on eBay because of its reach and ease of use. "eBay brings the traffic in, you just have to be selling the right items … eBay is what I would always say to get started off with because it's beginner friendly, it's easier."Dropshipping can become the first step into a much bigger e-commerce business. Entrepreneurs who are successful may want to create their own online store and advertise their products on social media. U.K.-based sports apparel brand, GymShark, became a $500 million business by tapping into influencer marketing networks after starting out as a dropshipper.Online pricing, success tipsCormier's education doesn't teach students how to purchase ads or how to build a website because he believes the most important aspects to dropshipping are selling the items and finding reliable suppliers. "What I've always taught is it's about the items, the pricing, and just showing up every day and putting in the work," he said.A focus on niche products is a great way for retailers to separate themselves from the competition. One case study examined Dark Horse Marine, a niche vendor of stainless steel anchors. While about 10% of the products are sold through dropshipping, the company said dropshipping provides several advantages, from testing new product lines to saving space by not having to store large heavy items.There tend to be two common misconceptions associated with dropshipping, according to Cormier. Some people think it is illegal because the seller does not handle the product, but it is the fact that dropshippers are the ultimate middlemen that allows them to create a business that can turn a profit.On the other hand, some people believe that they will become overnight success stories once they open an online store. Cormier calls this "shiny-object syndrome.""It's basically, 'Oh, I just found out about dropshipping.' They get all into it. And then like two weeks later, they see something else. 'Oh, I'm gonna go do Shopify dropshipping. ... Now I'm gonna do Amazon FBA [fulfillment by Amazon]. ... I'm gonna go do wholesale now. ... And I'm flipping cell phones. ... Now I'm running an Instagram marketing agency."VIDEO4:1504:15This stay-at-home mom makes six figures selling clothes onlineInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.SIGN UP: Money 101 is an 8-week learning course to financial freedom, delivered weekly to your inbox.CHECK OUT: 3 money moves helped me save $100,000 by age 25, says Break Your Budget blogger via Grow with Acorns+CNBC.Disclosure: NBCUniversal and Comcast Ventures are investors in Acorns.

2021/01/26, Nikol Szymul staffs a reception desk at Amazon offices discretely tucked into a building called Fiona in downtown Seattle, Washington on May 11, 2017.Getty ImagesAmazon plans to create 3,000 jobs and open a new office in Boston, the company announced Tuesday. The new hires — expected to be focused on software development, artificial intelligence, machine learning, management, HR and finance — will support its Amazon Web Services, robotics, Alexa and nascent Amazon Pharmacy teams. Amazon expects to add the jobs over the next several years.Amazon said it leased a 17-story office tower in Boston's Seaport district to accommodate the new hires. The 630,000-square-foot office, which is set to be completed in 2024, will include working space, innovation labs and mixed-use common areas for employees, as well as two theaters and other spaces for the public.The expansion builds on Amazon's growing presence in Boston. In 2018, Amazon said it would create 2,000 jobs in Boston and announced it would lease a separate 17-story mixed-use building in the Seaport district. Construction on the tower is expected to be completed this year.Amazon has been hiring at unprecedented levels during the pandemic, buoyed by a surge in e-commerce demand, as stuck-at-home shoppers turned to online retailers for both essential and nonessential goods.The company added more than 400,000 employees in 2020, which pushed its global workforce to more than 1 million. Last year, Amazon announced it will add thousands of jobs at tech hubs in major cities, including New York, Detroit and San Diego.VIDEO4:5604:56Amazon's head of devices on the future of AlexaSquawk Alley

2021/02/18, A Boeing 747 cargo freighter belonging to the Atlas Air flies into the clouds after lifting off from Hong Kong International Airport, on 23 October 2017, in Hong Kong, Hong Kong.S3studio | Getty ImagesAtlas Air Worldwide Holdings on Thursday forecast an increase in first-quarter revenue as the Amazon air contractor continues to benefit from higher demand during the Covid-19 pandemic.The cargo-and-charter company swung to a profit of $360 million in 2020 from a net loss the year earlier of $293 million, with revenue last year rising 17% to $3.2 billion.Amazon increased its stake in the company last month, Atlas said.Atlas Air shares were up more than 3% in morning trading, while the broader market was down.While it continues to expect strong demand, the carrier said pandemic-related expenses, such as premium pilot pay, will weigh on its bottom line in the first quarter. Fraught contract negotiations with pilots have ended and the process will move to arbitration that is slated to start in mid-March. Rival ATSG, which also flies for Amazon, reached a tentative contract agreement with pilots in its ABX unit in December.While passenger airlines have struggled as the pandemic decimated travel demand, cargo carriers have gotten a boost from e-commerce, medical supply shipments and an overall decline in air freight capacity.

2021/01/13, The Parler logo seen displayed on a smartphone with the Google, Amazon and Apple logos displayed on PC screen in the background. Google, Apple and Amazon have suspended the social networking app Parler.Pavlo Gonchar | LightRocket | Getty ImagesAmazon defended its decision to drop Parler from its web hosting service in response to a lawsuit filed by the social media app earlier this week.In court filings late Tuesday, Amazon said it flagged dozens of pieces of violent content to the social media app starting in November. The company argued that Parler violated its contract with Amazon's cloud computing unit, Amazon Web Services, when it failed to remove the content and that AWS suspended Parler's account "as a last resort.""This case is not about suppressing speech or stifling viewpoints," Amazon wrote in its response to Parler. "It is not about conspiracy to restrain trade. Instead, this case is about Parler's demonstrated unwillingness and inability to remove from the servers of AWS content that threatens public safety, such as by inciting and planning the rape, torture, and assassination of named public officials and private citizens."Amazon pulled the plug on Parler, a social media app popular with supporters of President Donald Trump, last week in the wake of the deadly U.S. Capitol riot. Parler filed a lawsuit against Amazon on Monday, accusing Amazon of breaching its contract and breaking antitrust laws. Parler also asked the court for a temporary restraining order to force AWS to reinstate its account.In its response to Parler's lawsuit, Amazon argued that restoring web service to Parler would likely harm the public, outweighing "any speculative damage Parler claims it may suffer" from its site being offline. It also rebuffed Parler's claim that AWS broke antitrust laws by denying it service. It cited Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, a law favored by Silicon Valley and, increasingly, under attack by lawmakers, which shields tech companies from being held liable for what users post on their platforms.Amazon said it began reporting content in violation of its terms of service to Parler on Nov. 17 of last year. Over the next seven weeks, Amazon said it reported more than 100 additional pieces of content advocating violence. Amazon included some examples of that content in exhibits filed alongside its lawsuit, which include death threats against members of Congress, tech company executives like Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, as well as U.S. Capitol Police, among other groups. In some Parler posts, users made threats to "burn down Amazon delivery trucks" and Apple stores, as well as "seize Amazon's servers.""We should peacefully assemble outside all these tech tyrants homes and businesses, then peacefully protest and peacefully loot and burn them," one Parler post read, according to the court filing.Amazon said content encouraging violence grew after the riot at the U.S. Capitol by some Trump supporters on Wednesday, which left five dead. Following the incident, politicians and the public have called on social media companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google's YouTube to more closely moderate their platforms, in order to prevent incitements to violence. Amazon held calls with Parler executives following the riot where it raised concerns about Parler's ineffective moderation strategies, which included relying on volunteers to report content. Parler CEO John Matze indicated on one of those calls that the company had a backlog of 26,000 reports of content that violated its policies and were still up on the site, the filing states."Parler's own failures left AWS little choice but to suspend Parler's account," Amazon said in the filing.In a court filing Wednesday afternoon, Parler disputed Amazon's claim that it objected to the social media site's moderation policies, adding that in mid-December, AWS "pledged that it was 'definitely in this journey with' Parler regarding abuse reports."Additionally, Parler alleges that Amazon was aware of the company's plans to build more robust moderation software, including an "AI system" that would pre-screen inappropriate content.Parler claims in the filing that the company maintained a positive business relationship with AWS up until it was terminated from the web hosting service. Parler alleged that last November AWS tried to sell Parler additional services, which would "permanently attach Parler to Amazon's hip."Parler didn't respond to a request for comment. Amazon previously said there was "no merit" to the claims laid out in Parler's lawsuit.VIDEO5:4405:44Tim Cook says Parler can get back on the App Store if it complies with terms of serviceSquawk on the Street

2021/02/05, A view of the Jose Gasparilla II with the battle flag of each of the NFL teams as well as the AFC Champion flag of the Kansas City Chiefs and the NFC Champion flag of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers along with the iconic Super Bowl LV logo floats in the Hillsborough River with Tampa General Hospital in the background days away from the playing of Super Bowl LV on February 2, 2020 at Tampa Convention Center, in Tampa, FL.Icon Sportswire | Getty ImagesAmazon is teaming up with a government counterfeit watchdog to spot and stop the sale of phony Super Bowl merchandise. Amazon and the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center, a task force that's overseen by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, will share information about counterfeits "in real time" before, during and after Sunday's contest between the Kansas City Chiefs and Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Amazon announced Friday.Intelligence on suspected counterfeiters will be collected on the ground in Tampa, where Super Bowl LV is being held, in online stores and at U.S. ports of entry, Amazon said. Information that may be shared includes physical addresses, supply routes and shippers. Federal officials are typically on high alert around the Super Bowl for fake merchandise. On Wednesday, Homeland Security announced it seized more than 169,000 counterfeit sports-related items since the last Super Bowl. In all, it's worth $45 million.The effort announced by Amazon on Friday is part of "Operation Fulfilled Action," an anti-counterfeit initiative launched by Amazon last November that paired up its Counterfeit Crimes Unit with the IPR Center. The CCU, launched last summer, is made up of former federal prosecutors, investigators and data analysts who mine the site for information and work with federal prosecutors. Amazon has stepped up its efforts to stamp out fake goods on its third-party marketplace, which now accounts for more than half the company's overall sales. Counterfeiters can be especially harmful for some brands that sell on the site, by pressuring them to lower their prices in order to compete with fake versions of their own products.The company has pursued counterfeiters in court, rolled out various programs to seek and detect sales of counterfeit goods and blocks suspected bad actor accounts and listings.VIDEO3:5703:57How the pandemic is changing Super Bowl advertisingSquawk Box

2021/01/15, Peter Endig | AFP | Getty ImagesA handful of Amazon's foreign websites were included in the U.S. government's annual "notorious markets" list due to concerns they host some counterfeit goods.The United States Trade Representative (USTR) office released its 2020 review of notorious markets on Thursday. The list identifies e-commerce sites and companies that are believed to be facilitating the sale of counterfeit goods, engaging in intellectual property violations or piracy.Amazon sites in the U.K., Germany, Spain, France and Italy were named in the report. Complainants against the foreign sites alleged that Amazon's counterfeit removal process is slow, even for companies that are enrolled in its brand protection programs. They also argued that Amazon doesn't thoroughly vet third-party sellers on its marketplace or make it clear to brands and consumers "who is selling the goods."Amazon disputed the trade representative's report, which didn't include Amazon's U.S. site, and pointed to its extensive programs and tools that are designed to stop counterfeiters."Including Amazon in this report is the continuation of a personal vendetta against Amazon, and nothing more than a desperate stunt in the final days of this administration," an Amazon spokesperson told CNBC in a statement. "Amazon does more to fight counterfeit than any other private entity we are aware of."Representatives from the USTR didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.President Donald Trump has repeatedly been critical of Amazon and its CEO Jeff Bezos during his four-year term. Bezos owns The Washington Post, which Trump has criticized for its unfavorable coverage of his administration. Amazon has also claimed it didn't win a Pentagon cloud-computing contract, which could be worth as much as $10 billion, as a result of attacks from Trump against the company and Bezos.Amazon sites were added to the USTR's notorious markets list for the first time in 2019. The American Apparel & Footwear Association in 2018 urged the trade representative to include some Amazon sites on the list.Beyond Amazon, other companies named on the list include Chinese e-commerce site Pinduoduo, South American e-commerce company Mercadolibre and file sharing site The Pirate Bay.Amazon has stepped up its efforts to curtail counterfeits as the third-party marketplace has grown. The marketplace now accounts for more than half of the company's overall sales and hosts millions of third-party merchants.While it remains a critical component of Amazon's business, the marketplace has also faced a number of issues related to the sale of counterfeit, unsafe and expired goods. In 2019, Amazon began mentioning counterfeit products as a risk factor in its annual filing.The company has pursued counterfeiters in court, rolled out various programs to seek and detect sales of counterfeit goods, and in June launched the Counterfeit Crimes Unit, made up of former federal prosecutors, investigators and data analysts, to mine the site for fraudulent activity.As a result of these and other efforts, 99.9% of pages viewed by customers on the site have never had a valid report of counterfeit, the spokesperson said.VIDEO11:4611:46How the US government and Amazon are fighting Chinese counterfeitsMarkets and Politics Digital Original Video

2021/02/25, Ernie Garcia, CEO, CarvanaScott Mlyn | CNBCThursday's earnings report from used car dealer Carvana could help validate the decisions of many hedge funds that have big bets on the company.The e-commerce company has seen its sales grow exponentially since its initial public offering in 2017 and has caught the eye of several top hedge fund managers.

2021/01/12, Jeff Bezos, CEO, AmazonMark Ralston | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon will be the leading share gainer among the major digital ads businesses in 2021 and 2022, according to a new ad buyer survey from Cowen released Tuesday.Amazon's ad business will continue to grow as more spend comes from TV, search and other digital platforms and as buyers see strong return on investment on the platform. Amazon's ad business also appears, at least in buyers' eyes, to be less exposed to the ongoing privacy debate and upcoming Apple privacy changes for ad tracking on the iPhone.Cowen's survey was based on responses from 52 senior U.S. ad buyers in December who represent $15 billion in U.S. ad spend. It asked buyers their views on Amazon, Google, Facebook, Snap, Twitter, Pinterest and TikTok. Respondents on a spend-weighted basis said they expect Amazon's share of their digital ad spend to rise from 7% in 2020 to 11% in 2022. And while they expect YouTube and TikTok to gain about 1% of share over that period, their responses showed other platforms could remain flat or see share erosion. Cowen analysts wrote that they estimate Amazon's ad revenue to rise to $26.1 billion in 2021, and rise to $85.2 billion by 2026. They wrote they believe Amazon's ad business' share of global digital advertising, excluding China, will grow from 8% in 2020 to 13% in 2026. Amazon's "other" category in its earnings report, which primarily consists of its advertising business, saw revenues of $14.1 billion in 2019.When they asked buyers which ad platform outside of Google or Facebook properties could become or is becoming a meaningful part of their digital ad spend, 35% said Amazon on a straight average basis, which rises to 43% on a spend weighted basis.  "Meanwhile, the second most popular choice was that GOOG / FB will continue to comprise the majority of the ad buyers' digital budget for the foreseeable future, 27% on an overall [average] basis," analysts wrote.  Buyers also ranked Amazon in second place in the category of return on investment out of all platforms, second to Google search. They noted that Amazon has high customer purchase intent and people are on Amazon to purchase, not just to scroll. Respondents also said they believe Amazon is most insulated from the impact of Apple's upcoming ad privacy changes. In the coming months, Apple will start enforcing a new rule that requires you to opt-in to ad tracking when you open an app that uses it. Companies like Facebook fear this will damage their ability to gather data on users and effectively target ads to them.  "Amid the backdrop of the upcoming IDFA change on iOS and discussion around privacy and tracking, survey respondents stated that Amazon was least likely to be impacted by the upcoming change (ahead of YouTube and Google Search)," Cowen analysts wrote. "AMZN seems relatively well positioned compared to peers, helped by high conversion from within the Amazon storefront, lessening reliance on other sites / apps for attribution." In a note earlier this month, MKM Partners analysts said based on a set of parameters, Facebook and Snap have the highest potential headwind due to Apple's privacy changes, followed by Twitter and Pinterest. They said Google and Amazon have the lowest relative exposure. In a December note, Bank of America analysts also said Facebook and Snap are most at risk from the changes, potentially creating a 3% revenue headwind for Facebook and a 5% headwind for Snap. They wrote Twitter has some modest exposure to mobile app downloads, but said the exposure is relatively small compared with that of Facebook and Snap. Pinterest and Google are the least exposed to IDFA, they said. CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed reporting.VIDEO2:2402:24With strong rebound in digital advertising, S4 Capital is moving fast with dealsSquawk Box Asia

2021/01/21, The Amazon headquarters sits virtually empty on March 10, 2020 in downtown Seattle, Washington. In response to the coronavirus outbreak, Amazon recommended all employees in its Seattle office to work from home, leaving much of downtown nearly void of people.John Moore | Getty ImagesAmazon is opening a pop-up clinic in Seattle to administer Covid-19 vaccines. The one-day clinic will be set up on Sunday at Amazon's headquarters in downtown Seattle, the company announced Thursday at a news conference with Washington Governor Jay Inslee. "The truth is, Covid-19 has been a tragedy for the country, for the world and for Washington," Amazon's top spokesperson, Jay Carney, said during the news conference. "We're eager to help save lives here in our home state, to rebuild the economy with you and turn the page on Covid as quickly as we can."The clinic, which is being launched in partnership with Virginia Mason Medical Center in Seattle, has a goal of administering 2,000 vaccines to the eligible members of the public. Amazon is providing the space to administer the vaccines, as well as assisting with logistics, an Amazon spokesperson said.Currently, the state of Washington allows people aged 65 and older, as well as people aged 50 and older who live in a multigenerational household, to receive the vaccine. Beyond the pop-up clinic, Carney said Amazon is working with Inslee and the state on its Covid-19 vaccine efforts. Amazon leadership is part of the Washington State Vaccine Command and Coordination Center, a public private partnership between the state and several other companies, including Starbucks and Microsoft, aimed at boosting Covid-19 vaccinations. The clinic comes as Amazon has appealed to President Joe Biden and other officials for its front-line workers to get priority access to the Covid-19 vaccine. The company wrote to Biden on Wednesday offering up its operations, information technology and communications expertise to help with national vaccination efforts.Carney said Amazon is ready to begin administering vaccines to its front-line workers once doses are available. He added that the company has ramped up coronavirus testing at its warehouses, having run "over a million tests" at 650 sites across the U.S.VIDEO1:1801:18Amazon reports 19K front-line workers test positive for Covid-19The News with Shepard Smith

2021/01/08, An Amazon fulfillment center in Frankenthal, Germany.Thorsten Wagner | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesFew companies have benefited more from the pandemic than Amazon. Its upcoming fourth-quarter earnings report is likely to show that that story still tracks.Amazon has topped analysts' expectations for the past two quarters, even while it's in the middle of a heavy investment period on coronavirus-related initiatives. The stock has gained more than 66% in the last year, taking its market cap from more than $956 billion to roughly $1.59 trillion, as of Friday morning.Wall Street is now anticipating a strong fourth quarter for Amazon fueled by continued accelerated e-commerce demand, the holiday shopping period and the results of its pandemic-delayed Prime Day, held in mid-October. These factors could propel Amazon to surpass $100 billion in quarterly revenue for the first time ever in the fourth quarter, according to analysts surveyed by FactSet.Amazon is expected to report fourth quarter results later this month or in early February, and sales growth isn't the only metric Wall Street is keeping an eye on. Here are five things investors and analysts will be watching for in Amazon's fourth-quarter results:

2021/01/26, In this articleAMZNGetty ImagesThe Amazon Echo has some new home security features that are now going live. Among other things, your Amazon Echo can make it sound like a dog is barking inside your house if your security cameras sense movement when you're not home.The feature is part of Alexa Guard Plus, a subscription service that costs $4.99 per month or $49 per year after a 30-day free trial. It's another way Amazon is using the Echo to generate recurring revenue from its hardware, but it's also useful for folks who may not want to pay for a full-blown security system.Guard Plus can also alert you to any sounds in your home using your Amazon Echo and sound a siren if activity is detected inside. You can also ask your Echo to call an emergency helpline if you're home and there's an intruder.Here's how to set it up:How to set up Alexa Guard Plus on Amazon EchoAmazon Alexa GuardTodd Haselton | CNBCFirst you have to sign up for the trial on Amazon's website, or say "Alexa, try Guard Plus" near your Amazon Echo.Open the Alexa app on your phone.Tap "More" on the bottom right.Choose Settings.Tap "Guard" toward the bottom of the page.You'll see an option to set up Guard with your existing devices, but it's easier to tap the Settings icon on the top right of the page to move through all of the options.Choose "Dog barking sounds" under "Deter" to set your Echo to attempt to scare off intruders while you're away. This requires cameras that are either outdoors or facing outdoors. Select the cameras you want to use.Choose "Activity Sounds with Siren" to have your Echo sound a siren if you're away from home and it hears someone inside. Amazon warns that a pet can trigger this, so consider that.Lastly, tap "Emergency Helpline." This is where you'll enter in your address in case you need to reach out for help. If you have an emergency, just say "Alexa, call for help." It will dial "trained agents who can request the dispatch of emergency responders — such as police, the fire department or an ambulance, on your behalf." Note this isn't 911 and is only available in the U.S. Agents are available 24/7.If you don't want to pay, there's also a free tier of Alexa Guard that's pretty useful.For instance, you can select "Away Lighting" under "Deter," which turns your smart lights on and off when you're away to make it look like you're home. Amazon says it learns from your regular patterns, so it's not just random.The free tier can also alert you to smoke and carbon monoxide alarm sounds, or if your Echo hears glass breaking. Just choose "Sound Detection" under "Detect."Once you're set up, just say "Alexa, I'm leaving," to turn on away mode.You can also set Alexa to guard from your phone when you leave the house. When you get home, just say "Alexa, I'm home."VIDEO2:2702:27Amazon and Google are becoming omnipresent whether you like it or notTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2021/01/20, U.S. President Joe Biden speaks during the inauguration of Joe Biden as the 46th President of the United States on the West Front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, January 20, 2021.Brendan McDermid | ReutersAmazon on Wednesday offered to help with the national effort to distribute the Covid-19 vaccine, according to a letter addressed to President Joe Biden, which was obtained by CNBC."As you begin your work leading the country out of the Covid-19 crisis, Amazon stands ready to assist you in reaching your goal of vaccinating 100 million Americans in the first 100 days of your administration," Dave Clark, CEO of Amazon's worldwide consumer business, wrote in the letter, which was first reported on by Reuters.Clark said Amazon stands ready to leverage its operations, information technology and communications capabilities and expertise to "assist your administration's vaccination efforts." He added that Amazon has reached an agreement with a third-party health-care provider to administer vaccines on site at the company's warehouses.The letter comes as Amazon has been vying for its front-line workers to have priority access to the Covid-19 vaccine. Last month, Clark wrote to a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention panel asking that the company's front-line employees "receive the Covid-19 vaccine at the earliest appropriate time." Clark also emphasized that Amazon's front-line workers have played an essential role in helping consumers get necessary products delivered to their homes during the coronavirus pandemic.Here's the full letter Clark sent to Biden on Wednesday:Dear President Biden,Congratulations to you and Vice President Harris on your inauguration. As you begin your work leading the country out of the Covid-19 crisis, Amazon stands ready to assist you in reaching your goal of vaccinating 100 million Americans in the first 100 days of your administration.As the nation's second largest employer, Amazon has over 800,000 employees in the United States, most of whom are essential workers who cannot work from home. We are proud of the role our employees have played to help customers stay safe and received important products and services at home, which is critical for people with underlying medical conditions and those susceptible to complications from Covid-19. The essential employees working at Amazon fulfillment centers, AWS data centers, and Whole Foods Market stores across the country who cannot work from home should receive the Covid-19 vaccine at the earliest appropriate time. We will assist them in that effort.We have an agreement in place with a licensed third-party occupational health care provider to administer vaccines on-site at our Amazon facilities. We are prepared to move quickly once vaccines are available. Additionally, we are prepared to leverage our operations, information technology and communications capabilities and expertise to assist your administration's vaccination efforts. Our scale allows us to make a meaningful impact immediately in the fight against Covid-19, and we stand ready to assist you in this effort.Since the beginning of this crisis, we have worked hard to keep our workers safe. We are committed to assisting your administration's vaccination efforts as we work together to protect our employees and continue to provide essential services during the pandemic.Sincerely,Dave ClarkCEO, Worldwide ConsumerVIDEO3:0603:06President Biden and Vice President Harris depart the U.S. CapitolPower Lunch

2021/01/25, In this articleWKL-NLMiki Kuusi, CEO and co-founder of Wolt.WoltWolt, a food delivery app that's expanded into groceries and retail, has raised $530 million as it tries to take on Amazon.The funding round in the six-year-old company was led by ICONIQ Capital, which has also invested in Airbnb, Uber, Alibaba and Zoom. It brings total investment in the firm to $856 million. Wolt, which did not disclose its latest valuation, said it will use the money to "continue expanding beyond restaurants."Miki Kuusi, who founded Wolt in 2014 in Helsinki, told CNBC: "Our mission is to enable local restaurants and other brick and mortar operators to have the tools at their disposal to provide a better e-commerce experience to their local customers than what their massive overseas competitors are able to do today."He added: "We are huge believers that the next wave of e-commerce will go from same week and same day delivery to delivery within the next 30 minutes or so as the standard. That's what we're focused on building in all of our markets, starting with the restaurant." Rapid growthWhen Wolt launched in Helsinki in 2015, it had just 10 restaurants on its platform and a small handful of downloads. By 2016, Wolt had around 100,000 app users and 450 restaurants.Today, Wolt boasts over 10 million users across 129 cities in 23 countries. It claims to have 27,000 restaurant and retail partners, 50,000 couriers and 2,000 employees.While Amazon is huge in the U.S. and many other countries, it isn't as well established in some corners of Europe and large swathes of Asia. In fact, the tech giant only has dedicated online stores for around 17 countries worldwide.Amazon launched its first Nordic online store in Sweden last October with the domain name Amazon.se, but there isn't the equivalent in Norway and Finland. This means that customers there must make purchases via Amazon stores in other European countries such as the U.K. (Amazon.co.uk).But while Wolt looks to take on Amazon, Amazon is also encroaching on Wolt's turf: restaurant deliveries.Amazon has invested in London's Deliveroo, leading a $575 million funding round in the company in May 2019 in exchange for a 16% stake. Deliveroo has also started delivering groceries in recent months as the coronavirus pandemic makes people think twice about leaving their homes.Amazon also sells groceries on its platform from supermarkets like Whole Foods, as well as Morrisons and Booths in the U.K.Raising capital during coronavirusWolt's Kuusi said that it took the company less than three weeks to close the new funding round."We went from the first calls to signing a term sheet in roughly two and a half weeks," he said.Tiger Global, DST, KKR, Prosus, EQT Growth and Coatue joined as new investors. Existing investors 83North, Highland Europe, Goldman Sachs Growth Equity, EQT Ventures and Vintage Investment Partners also participated.Kuusi is also the founder of European tech events company Slush. Slush went from a 300-person gathering in Helsinki in 2008 to one of the world's biggest tech events — attended by more than 30,000 people every year before the coronavirus pandemic.

2021/01/13, In this articleAMZNAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos with Amazon India Chief Amit Agarwal during the Amazon's annual Smbhav event at Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium, on January 16, 2020 in New Delhi, India.Pradeep Gaur/Mint via Getty ImagesAmazon is pushing deeper into education with a new learning platform that's designed to help students in India get into prestigious engineering colleges.The so-called Amazon Academy, announced Wednesday, will be available through a new Android app and a website. It's designed to help students prepare for the Joint Entrance Examination, which is an assessment conducted for admission to certain engineering colleges in India.Amazon said Amazon Academy will include curated learning material, live lectures and assessments in math, physics and chemistry. The platform will also feature live mock tests that are designed to mimic the JEE exam experience. "Amazon Academy aims to bring high quality, affordable education to all, starting with those preparing for engineering entrance examinations," said Amol Gurwara, director of education at Amazon India, in a statement."Our mission is to help students achieve their outcomes while also empowering educators and content partners reach millions of students. Our primary focus has been on content quality, deep learning analytics and student experience. This launch will help engineering aspirants prepare better and achieve the winning edge in JEE."Amazon said the content is currently available for free and "will continue to be for the next few months," suggesting that it will eventually start charging students.Amazon has a number of other education platforms and initiatives including AWS Educate, which is designed to help people get to grips with Amazon's cloud platform, Amazon Web Services. There's also Amazon Ignite, which connects educational content creators to Amazon customers and helps them sell things like lesson plans and classroom games as digital downloads.Fellow U.S. tech giants Google and Apple have their own education offerings. Google for Education, for example, provides customizable versions of several Google products, while Apple offers discounts to students and teachers on its hardware.Amazon in IndiaHome too over 1.3 billion people, India is a huge market. Amazon has been scaling up its operations over the last few years in the country, which still has a relatively nascent e-commerce market compared to its neighbor China and countries in the West.Reports suggest that Amazon now employs over 65,000 people in the country although Amazon declined to comment when CNBC tried to confirm the figure. Last May, Amazon said it needed to hire 50,000 more temporary workers in India order to meet demand from Covid.The Seattle-headquartered tech giant opened a vast new office with space for over 15,000 workers in Hyderabad in December 2019 that is reportedly the company's single-largest building in the world.Amazon's online careers portal shows that the company is looking for software development engineers and front-end engineers in India to work on Amazon Pay, which is an online payments processing service owned by Amazon."We are seeking Sr. Engineers to build a payment platform that will offer new payment mechanisms for our millions of customers and enable the 'cash to digital" economy,' one job ad reads.It continues: "Amazon India Payments has a bold vision to become the most trusted, widely accepted payment solution on and off Amazon, for both online and offline transactions. To execute on this vision, Amazon India is systematically investing in local product innovation in areas of payment experience, payment processing, innovative payment instruments and merchant solutions."

2021/01/16, Andy Jassy, CEO of Amazon Web Services.CNBCGetting kicked off Amazon Web Services is rare, but it has enormous consequences.It happened this week, when Amazon dropped Parler, a social network that gained traction from conservatives after Twitter banned President Donald Trump and housed content that encouraged violence. Parler filed suit against Amazon in federal district court in an attempt to stop Amazon from suspending Parler's account, and Amazon pushed back, requesting that the court deny Parler's motion.The incident demonstrates a type of power that Amazon wields almost uniquely because so many companies rely on it to deliver computing and data storage. Amazon controlled 45% of the cloud infrastructure in 2019, more than any other company, according to estimates from technology research company Gartner. The app survived without being listed in Apple and Google's app stores, but getting sent away from Amazon's cloud has left Parler absent from the internet for days.Parler's engineering team had built software that drew on computing resources from Amazon Web Services, and the company had been in talks with Amazon about adopting proprietary AWS database and artificial intelligence services, the company said in a district court filing on Wednesday.It would take time to figure out how to perform similar functions on Parler's own servers or a cloud other than AWS. And in the case of Parler, time is critical, because it came as the service was gaining attention and new users following Twitter's Trump ban.Parler's engineers could learn to use other computing infrastructure, or the company could hire developers who already have that knowledge. But because no cloud provider is as popular as Amazon, people skilled in, say, Oracle's cloud aren't as as easy to find as those who know how to build on AWS.The warnings were thereThe swiftness with which Amazon acted shouldn't come as a shock. Companies have been disclosing details about their deals with Amazon that warn of these kinds of sudden discontinuations for years.In 2010, DNA sequencing company Complete Genomics said that "an interruption of services by Amazon Web Services, on whom we rely to deliver finished genomic data to our customers, would result in our customers not receiving their data on time."Gaming company Zynga warned about how its AWS foundation could quickly vanish when it filed the prospectus for its initial public offering in 2011. At the time, AWS hosted half of the traffic for Zynga's games, such as FarmVille and Words with Friends, the company said."AWS may terminate the agreement without cause by providing 180 days prior written notice, and may terminate the agreement with 30 days prior written notice for cause, including any material default or breach of the agreement by us that we do not cure within the 30-day period," Zynga said.AWS can even terminate or suspend its agreement with a customer immediately under certain circumstances as it did in 2010 with Wikileaks, pointing to violations of AWS' terms of service.Parler started using AWS in 2018, long after the Wikileaks incident and the first corporate disclosures about the possibility of cloud interruptions.When AWS told Parler it planned to suspend Parler's AWS account, it said Parler had violated the terms repeatedly, including by not owning or controlling the rights to its content.Over the course of several weeks, AWS alerted Parler to instances of user content that encouraged violence, Amazon said in a court filing. More of that content surfaced after protesters stormed the Capitol building in Washington on Jan. 6, interrupting Congress' confirmation of the Electoral College results from the 2020 presidential election. AWS conveyed that Parler wasn't doing enough to speedily remove that sort of information from its social network.Parler could have protected itself more. Large AWS customers can sign up for more extensive agreements, which allow more customers time to get into compliance if they wind up breaking rules.Gartner analyst Lydia Leong spelled out this difference in a blog post: "Thirty days is a common timeframe specified as a cure period in contracts (and is the cure period in the AWS standard Enterprise Agreement), but cloud provider click-through agreements (such as the AWS Customer Agreement) do not normally have a cure period, allowing immediate action to be taken at the provider's discretion," she wrote.Other cloud providers have their own terms their customers must follow. AWS now has millions of customers, though, and it holds more of the cloud infrastructure market than any other provider. As a result, many organizations could be exposed to the sort of treatment Parler received, rare as it is, if they don't behave in accordance with Amazon's standards.Parler recognized the drawbacks of being beholden to a cloud provider, but ultimately, the flexibility clouds offer was too appealing to ignore. "I'm personally very anti-cloud and anti-centralization, though AWS has its place for high-burst traffic," Alexander Blair, Parler's technology chief, wrote in a post on the service.Parler and Amazon did not immediately respond to requests for comment.WATCH: Apple pulls Parler from App Store amid crackdown on violent postsVIDEO1:5701:57Apple pulls Parler from App Store amid crackdown on violent postsSquawk Alley

2021/01/26, In this articleAMZNAmazon's Climate Pledge Fund is backing a recently launched company focused on decarbonizing the transportation sector as the world rushes toward a greener future.Start-up Infinium manufactures zero-carbon electrofuels, which is fuel made from electricity rather than oil. They're known as drop-in fuels since they can be used with existing infrastructure. In other words, electrofuels could be used to power the engines of today's trucks, ships and planes.The Sacramento-based company announced its first founding round on Tuesday, led by AP Ventures, which is a London-based venture capital firm focused on hydrogen and its role in decarbonization. In addition to Amazon, other backers include Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and the Grantham Environmental Trust, founded by legendary investor Jeremy Grantham.Infinium is targeting areas of the transportation sector that have proved difficult to decarbonize, including long-haul trucking, aviation and shipping. When it comes to planes, for example, lithium-ion batteries are not a great alternative given their cost and weight, while fuel cells would require heavy investment to retrofit planes and the entire infrastructure that supports fueling.But roughly one quarter of global emissions come from the transportation sector, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, meaning it's a vital part of the decarbonization story.Infinium uses renewable power for electrolysis — the process of splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen — to produce what's known as green hydrogen. The hydrogen is then combined with carbon dioxide that otherwise would have been released into the atmosphere, and put through Infinium's proprietary reactor.The ultimate output is a net zero carbon fuel that can be used to power jets and trucks, among other things.Green hydrogen is key for electrofuels to be environmentally friendly. It's not new technology, but it's prohibitively high cost has traditionally stood in the way of its gaining widespread traction. One of the ways Infinium plans to lower costs is to build its plants at or near renewable power sources — in remote locations, for instance — where production is cheap, but where transmission to market might be difficult.While biofuels and green diesel are already on the market, Infinium CEO Robert Schuetzle said his company's fuels are a new class given their lower carbon intensity.Infinium currently has 10 projects under development around the world, and Schuetzle expects the first electrofuels to hit the market by late 2023 or early 2024."This is a platform that is ready for commercial," Schuetzle said. "Based on the economics of low cost renewable power electrolyzer costs coming down in the green hydrogen space, and the addition of Infinium's commercial ready technology platform, this will be a major area of focus for the transportation sector in coming years."The company's launch comes as corporations — including airlines — are increasingly outlining ambitious decarbonization goals, amid pressure from investors and the public more broadly.Of course, bringing any new technology or product to market is difficult. Schuetzle said that while Infinium is new, it builds on more than 10 years from technology development at Greyrock Energy, which he also founded and which focused on converting natural gas to liquid form."With Infinium, we see real potential to help decarbonize heavier forms of transportation, including air and freight, as well as heavy trucks," Kara Hurst, Vice President of Worldwide Sustainability at Amazon, said in a statement.Infinium did not disclose how much money it raised in its initial funding round. An Amazon spokesperson said the company doesn't usually comment on the size of investments made by the $2 billion Climate Pledge Fund, which was launched in June.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2021/01/21, In this articleAMZNThe Parler logo is seen on an Apple iPhone.Jaap Arriens | NurPhoto | Getty ImagesA U.S. judge has refused to order Amazon to bring Parler back online, delivering a blow to the upstart social media network.Parler had become a haven for many conservatives and Trump supporters who felt traditional social media companies were censoring their speech. But in the wake of the deadly U.S. Capitol riot earlier this month, Amazon's cloud-computing unit told Parler that it would no longer provide cloud services to the company. Amazon alleged in court filings that it began flagging violent content to Parler in November, including posts that made death threats against lawmakers and tech executives.In response, Parler filed a lawsuit against Amazon Web Services in U.S. District Court in Seattle for withdrawing support and demanded that AWS reinstate its account.U.S. District Judge Barbara Rothstein sided with Amazon in an order on Thursday, saying AWS was well within its rights to deny service to Parler for failing to remove content that violated the company's terms of service. "The court rejects any suggestion that the public interest favors requiring AWS to host the incendiary speech that the record shows some of Parler's users have engaged in," Rothstein wrote in the order. "At this stage, on the showing made thus far, neither the public interest nor the balance of equities favors granting an injunction in this case."The judge also rebuffed Parler's claim that Amazon pulled the plug on the site to benefit Twitter and violated antitrust laws.Earlier this week, Parler's website came partly back online after the company transferred its domain name to Epik. Epik is a company that sells domain names and it also hosts Gab, a social media network that's popular with the far-right. Additionally, Parler is using an IP address owned by DDos-Guard, a Russian company that protects websites from cyberattacks, among other services, according to Reuters.VIDEO5:3305:33Tech's move to take Parler off was a 'one time event': Jason CalacanisSquawk Alley

2021/01/15, Amazon fulfillment center warehouse.Getty ImagesAmazon warehouse workers at an Alabama warehouse can begin voting by mail in early February on whether to form a union, a National Labor Relations Board hearing officer ruled Friday.The ruling kicks off what will be a closely watched union vote at one of the nation's largest employers. Unions have a stronger foothold among some of Amazon's European workforce, but the company has largely manage to thwart organizing efforts in the U.S.About 6,000 employees at the fulfillment center in Bessemer, Alabama will cast their ballots beginning on Feb. 8 to be represented by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. Ballots must be received by the NLRB's regional office by March 29, then the board will begin counting the ballots beginning at 10 a.m. CT on the following day.The decision represents a blow to Amazon, which had pushed for the election to be held in person at the Bessemer facility, known as BHM1.A RWDSU spokesperson declined to comment. Amazon didn't respond to a request for comment. An Amazon spokesperson previously said the company doesn't believe the RWDSU "represents the majority of our employees' views."Last November, workers at the Alabama facility notified the NLRB of their plans to hold a vote on whether to be represented by the RWDSU. During a three-day hearing in December, Amazon and the union ironed out details around which employees should be allowed to vote in the election, as well as the election setting.Amazon advocated for an in-person election, but the NLRB raised concerns that holding the election at the facility would require board agents to travel into Jefferson County, which has a high Covid-positive rate.VIDEO2:3702:37Alabama Amazon workers could vote to unionize in 2021TechLisa Henderson, acting regional director for the NLRB, said in the decision that a mail ballot election will "protect the health and safety of voters, Agency personnel, the parties' representatives, and the public during the current health crisis."Amazon has set up a website to advertise its position on the Alabama warehouse union drive, urging workers to "do it without dues," referring to the cost of membership when joining a union."We've got you covered with high wages, health care, vision, and dental benefits, as well as a safety committee and appeals process," according to the website, which was first reported by The Washington Post. "There's so much MORE you can do for your career and your family without paying dues."Amazon hasn't faced a substantial union vote since 2014, when repair technicians at a Delaware warehouse failed to garner enough votes to form a union. However, since then, protests tied to Prime Day and other events, as well as the coronavirus pandemic, have laid the groundwork for rising organizing efforts among some parts of its workforce across the country.Amazon spokeswoman Heather Knox told CNBC in a statement that the company maintains "the best approach to a valid, fair and successful election" is one that's conducted in-person near the Alabama facility."We will continue to insist on measures for a fair election, and we want everyone to vote, so our focus is ensuring that's possible," Knox added.A RWDSU spokesperson declined to comment.VIDEO9:1109:11Can Amazon continue to perform?Fast Money

2021/01/15, In this articleAMZN8TI-FFAmazon introduces an in-car gadget, the Echo Auto, at an event on Sept. 20, 2018Todd Haselton | CNBCAmazon wants to make it easier for automakers to bring voice assistants to their vehicles.The company announced on Friday a new service — Alexa Custom Assistant — that enables automakers and device manufacturers to develop their own digital assistant, built on Amazon's Alexa voice-enabled technology.Even though it relies on Amazon technology, automakers can tailor their digital assistant to their liking by setting unique wake words, voice, skills and capabilities, such as search, traffic updates and navigation.The cost to develop an intelligent assistant using the service will vary depending on the device or vehicle, customer use cases and language requirements, Amazon said.Amazon said the solution is meant to remove some of the challenges that come with a company building its own digital assistant technology from scratch, which can be costly and time consuming. Automakers that use the service can also tap into "tens of thousands of Alexa skills and integrations," like smart home, entertainment and shopping. "The real way that you're going to want to interact with a voice assistant in your car is to have it built in," Dave Limp, Amazon's top hardware exec, told CNBC on Friday in a "Squawk Alley" interview. "It just takes time to do that."Now, with the addition of Alexa Custom Assistant, it allows us to add even more flexibility for those auto manufacturers to add it in and build it in moving into the future," he added.The offering is the latest example of Amazon's efforts to extend Alexa's reach beyond voice-activated smart speakers. The company has baked the digital assistant into a range of devices around the home, including microwaves, clocks and smart plugs. "Obviously we started with smart speakers, we've extended to smart displays, we announced at CES this year with PCs," Limp told CNBC. "We think this idea of ambient computing, and Alexa powering that, it has a lot of breadth and it can be in a lot of different places."Over the past few years, Amazon has set its sights on partnering with carmakers to bring Alexa on the road, either by embedding the digital assistant into vehicles or enabling more basic capabilities, like letting owners lock their vehicle's doors using voice commands from their homes. Last January, Amazon released an edition of its Fire TV streaming service for seatback screens.Amazon faces competition from Silicon Valley companies like Apple and Google that are also looking to persuade carmakers to integrate their technologies into in-car infotainment systems. So far, Amazon has formed partnerships with a growing list of automakers including General Motors, Ford, BMW, Audi, Toyota, Hyundai and Nissan.  Fiat Chrysler, which has previously partnered with Amazon on bringing its technology to vehicles, will be the first automaker to develop its own digital assistant via Alexa Custom Assistant, Amazon said. Alexa Custom Assistant will be integrated in select Fiat Chrysler vehicles through its infotainment system for cars, Uconnect 5.VIDEO11:0711:07CarPlay, Android Auto, Alexa — big tech gets into our carsTech

2021/01/19, Signage outside a Bank of America branch in San Francisco, California, U.S., on Thursday, Jan. 14, 2021.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAnalysts at Bank of America predict a "big bang" for the European e-pharmacy sector, and name a couple of stocks they think will outperform, even if Amazon enters the market.The analysts pointed to several trends set to give the online pharmacy market sector a boost, including a growing online market for pharmaceuticals, the introduction of electronic prescriptions and a demographic that is increasingly happy to use e-commerce sites.They estimated the market in Western Europe (excluding the U.K.) will grow from 11 billion euros ($13.3 billion) in 2020, to 47 billion euros in 2030. A compound annual growth rate of 16% will also significantly outstrip the 2.5% rate expected for the pharmacy sector as a whole in the region.And even though the analysts said there is a "significant" threat of Amazon launching an online drug store in Europe (the U.S. version launched in November), they named the stocks they believe already have the upper hand and will capitalize on the online drugs boom.

2021/01/09, Jeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon, pictured on September 13, 2018.Bloomberg | Getty ImagesA group of Amazon corporate employees is calling on the company to stop providing cloud services to Parler, a social media app popular with Trump supporters.In a tweet on Saturday, employee advocacy group Amazon Employees for Climate Justice said Amazon Web Services should "deny Parler services until it removes posts inciting violence, including at the Presidential inauguration." AWS provides cloud services to Parler that host its website.By Saturday night, Amazon informed Parler it would no longer provide cloud services to the site, with the suspension taking effect on Sunday at 11:59 p.m. PT. The decision means that if Parler can't locate a new cloud provider by Sunday night, the site will go offline for users.Multiple news outlets reported that Amazon had already suspended Parler, but the site was still available to CNBC staff as of the early morning hours East Coast time.Representatives from Amazon and Parler didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.Parler founder and CEO John Matze lashed out in a post on his Parler account late Saturday night, saying that "We are the closest thing to competition Facebook or Twitter has seen in many years. I believe Amazon, Google, Apple worked together to try and ensure they don't have competition."Amazon is the latest tech giant to cut ties with Parler in the wake of the deadly U.S. Capitol riot earlier this week. Google on Friday removed Parler from its app store for Android users, Google Play Store. BuzzFeed News reported on Friday that Apple has threatened to pull Parler from its App Store.Parler, which launched in 2018, has emerged as a popular platform for President Trump's allies in the last year by billing itself as a free speech alternative to mainstream social media services like Twitter and Facebook.Screenshots of the Parler app viewed by CNBC show users posting references to firing squads, as well as calls to bring weapons to the presidential inauguration later this month. AWS' acceptable use policy states that it prohibits customers from using its services "for any illegal, harmful, fraudulent, infringing or offensive use."Amazon has previously cut ties with customers who violated its rules. In 2019, Amazon pulled the plug on a fundraising site used by Gab, a social media site that caters to conservatives, after it violated Amazon's policies on hateful content.The employee group, AECJ, has had some success making its demands heard in the past. Last April, the group staged an "online walkout" in protest of the company's labor practices. Additionally, the group is widely credited for influencing Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos' decision to announce a sweeping climate change plan, after the group pushed for change at the company's 2019 shareholder meeting.-- CNBC's Kif Leswing contributed to this report.VIDEO1:3501:35Twitter has suspended President Trump permanently due to the risk of further incitement of violenceThe News with Shepard Smith

2021/01/12, In this articleAWSR^-NLAMZNParler CEO John Matze joins CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on July 2, 2020.CNBCSocial network Parler is suing Amazon for pulling its cloud computing support in the wake of the deadly U.S. Capitol riot. Popular with conservatives and supporters of President Donald Trump, Parler was reliant on the cloud computing services provided by AWS. However, AWS withdrew its support this week after concluding that posts on Parler "clearly encourage and incite violence."In a lawsuit filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Seattle, Parler accused Amazon Web Services of breaking antitrust laws."AWS's decision to effectively terminate Parler's account is apparently motivated by political animus," the lawsuit said. "It is also apparently designed to reduce competition in the microblogging services market to the benefit of Twitter."It continues: "This emergency suit seeks a Temporary Restraining Order against defendant Amazon Web Services to prevent it from shutting down Parler's account. Doing so is the equivalent of pulling the plug on a hospital patient on life support. It will kill Parler's business — at the very time it is set to skyrocket."An AWS spokesperson told CNBC there's no merit to the claims, while Parler did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment. "It is clear that there is significant content on Parler that encourages and incites violence against others, and that Parler is unable or unwilling to promptly identify and remove this content, which is a violation of our terms of service," an AWS spokesperson told CNBC."We made our concerns known to Parler over a number of weeks and during that time we saw a significant increase in this type of dangerous content, not a decrease, which led to our suspension of their services Sunday evening."Apple and Google remove ParlerScreenshots of the Parler app viewed by CNBC show users posting references to firing squads, as well as calls to bring weapons to next week's presidential inauguration of Joe Biden.In the lawsuit, Parler's lawyers question why AWS isn't removing support for Twitter, which is also an AWS customer.AWS "stated the reason for the suspension was that AWS was not confident Parler could properly police its platform regarding content that encourages or incites violence against others," the lawsuit said. "However, (on) Friday night one of the top trending tweets on Twitter was 'Hang Mike Pence.' But AWS has no plans nor has it made any threats to suspend Twitter's account."Twitter declined to comment.Parler became the number one free downloaded app on Apple's App Store after Twitter announced that it was permanently banning Trump from its platform. "Conservative users began to flee Twitter en masse for Parler," the lawsuit said.  However, Apple removed Parler from the iPhone App Store on Saturday, a day after Google removed Parler from its Android app store.John Matze, founder and CEO of Parler, condemned the tech giants' moves. In a series of posts on Parler over the weekend, he said his platform had removed its violent content and adding that its community guidelines don't allow Parler to be knowingly used for criminal activity.Matze said Monday that the Parler app will be down "longer than expected" because other cloud hosting companies do not want to work with Parler in light of the press statements issued by Amazon, Google and Apple."This is not due to software restrictions — we have our software and everyone's data ready to go. Rather it's that Amazon's, Google's and Apple's statements to the press about dropping our access has caused most of our other vendors to drop their support for us as well," Matze said.He added: "Most people with enough servers to host us have shut their doors to us. We will update everyone and update the press when we are back online."Parler has transferred its domain name to Epik, which hosts the similar far-right social media network Gab. However, it still needs to find a hosting provider."At this point, we may even have to go as far as buying and building our own data centers," said Matze in an interview with Fox News on Monday.Gab, a social network known for its far-right userbase and a frequent host of hate speech, appears to be benefiting from the fallout. On Monday, Gab CEO Andrew Torba announced that the platform had gained 600,000 new users.— CNBC's Annie Palmer contributed to this report.

2021/01/05, A wide body aircraft emblazoned with Amazon's Prime logo lands at Lehigh Valley International Airport in Allentown, Pennsylvania, U.S. December 20, 2016. Picture taken December 20, 2016. To match Insight AMAZON.COM-SHIPPING/ REUTERS/Mark MakelaREUTERS/Mark MakelaAmazon said Tuesday it's buying 11 used Boeing 767-300 jets from Delta and WestJet, the latest sign of how cargo carriers are growing while passenger airlines rush to shrink their fleets as Covid-19 hurts travel demand.The expansion comes as Amazon continues to push for faster delivery amid a pandemic-fueled surge in online orders. Stuck-at-home shoppers have turned to the service for both essential and nonessential goods, while the holiday shopping season generated further demand for speedy delivery.The four WestJet planes are being converted to cargo jets and will join the Amazon Air fleet this year, while the seven Delta planes will be added in 2022 after their conversion, Amazon said.The company has been steadily building up the fleet of planes dedicated to its Amazon Air cargo operations through leasing agreements but Tuesday's announcement marks its first-ever outright aircraft purchase, Amazon said."Having a mix of both leased and owned aircraft in our growing fleet allows us to better manage our operations, which, in turn, helps us to keep pace with meeting our customer promises," Sarah Rhoads, vice president of Amazon Global Air, said in a statement.Amazon said the Amazon Air fleet will have more than 85 planes, both leased and owned, by the end of 2022. Amazon launched its air fleet in 2016, prompting speculation that it would reduce its reliance on UPS and FedEx. The company still relies on outside carriers for a portion of its deliveries, but it has rapidly accelerated its in-house logistics operations, particularly during the pandemic. Amazon Air's 767 fleet is operated by Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings and Air Transport Services Group, but an Amazon spokeswoman declined to comment on which airlines would operate the newly purchased planes.The expansion builds on Amazon's ramp up of its air cargo fleet last year. The company's $1.5 billion air hub in Kentucky is slated to open this year,. It has capacity for 100 Amazon-branded planes and is expected to handle an estimated 200 flights per day.Amazon, Delta and WestJet declined to disclose the planes' price but the value of many aircraft has plunged this year as the coronavirus decimated travel demand. Boeing 767-300ERs values in mid-December were about 15% lower compared with the start of 2020, according to Ascend by Cirium, an aviation consulting firm. Rob Morris, a consultant at Ascend, said the Delta aircraft are about 20 years old and, if between major maintenance cycles, would be valued at close to $13 million to nearly $14 million each.Delta and other airlines have sped up retirements of aircraft to help cut costs as the virus and a web of travel restrictions and quarantine requirements aimed at slowing the disease's spread, kept many potential customers at home.Delta in June said it planned to retire seven of its Boeing 767-300ER jets by the end of 2020 and in October it announced it plans to retire the remaining 49 of its 767-300ER aircraft by the end of 2025.Clarification: This story has been updated to clarify that Amazon Air's 767 fleet is operated by Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings and Air Transport Services Group.VIDEO1:2901:29This global airline analyst details the stocks she recommendsThe Exchange

2021/01/25, Exterior of Alibaba Group Beijing Headquarters on November 10, 2019 in Beijing, China.VCG | Visual China Group | Getty ImagesU.S. and Chinese technology stocks had a great year in 2020, with the likes of Amazon and Tencent seeing double-digit increases in their share prices.While many tech companies benefited from a shift in consumer behavior toward e-commerce and other online activity, there are concerns that the giants of American and Chinese tech could come under further regulatory scrutiny this year.A ramp-up in the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines and the reopening of economies could also hamper the prospects of tech companies that have profited from stay-at-home trends.With that in mind, investors are no doubt asking how to play the sector in 2021 — and they're in luck. Citigroup has identified a raft of its top tech picks for the U.S. and China.

2021/01/09, In this articleAMZNParler CEO John Matze joins CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on July 2, 2020.CNBCAmazon has pulled the plug on Parler, a social media app popular with Trump supporters, in the wake of the deadly U.S. Capitol riot.Amazon's cloud-computing unit, Amazon Web Services, informed Parler on Saturday that it will no longer provide cloud services to the company beginning on Sunday at 11:59 p.m. PT, according to an email obtained by CNBC. AWS provided cloud services to Parler that hosted its website, meaning it would go offline unless it could locate a new cloud provider.News of Amazon's decision to drop Parler was first reported by BuzzFeed.In the email, Amazon Web Services' Trust and Safety team told Parler chief policy officer Amy Peikoff that the platform continues to host "violent content" that violates AWS' terms of service. AWS said it wasn't satisfied with Parler's attempts to moderate content on its platform and, as a result, would move to "suspend Parler's account.""AWS provides technology and services to customers across the political spectrum, and we continue to respect Parler's right to determine for itself what content it will allow on its site," the letter states. "However, we cannot provide services to a customer that is unable to effectively identify and remove content that encourages or incites violence against others. Because Parler cannot comply with our terms of service and poses a very real risk to public safety, we plan to suspend Parler's account effective Sunday, January 10th, at 11:59PM PST."Although Google and Apple removed the Parler app from their app stores on Friday and Saturday, respectively, users could still log in if they already had the app installed or through the Parler website. Amazon's move to stop hosting Parler goes a step further, effectively taking it completely offline unless the company can find a new host.An Amazon spokesperson confirmed the authenticity of the letter to CNBC but declined to comment further. AWS told Parler in the email that it had flagged 98 examples to Parler of posts that "clearly encourage and incite violence." Among the posts it reported to Parler, which were viewed by CNBC, users on the platform made violent threats directed at "liberal leaders, liberal activists #blm leaders and supporters," in addition to other groups.Screenshots of the Parler app viewed by CNBC show users posting references to firing squads, as well as calls to bring weapons to the presidential inauguration later this month.In an interview published a day after the riot, Parler CEO John Matze told The New York Times' Kara Swisher he didn't "feel responsible for any of this and neither should the platform, considering we're a neutral town square that just adheres to the law."He sought to clarify his comments this weekend, saying: "In an interview this week, some believe I gave the impression that I somehow did not care whether Parler is used to incite violence. I want to set the record straight: That interpretation could not be further from the truth."In the statement, he said the site has standards that forbid advocacy of violence and law-breaking but does not engage in user surveillance. "Evaluated objectively, our system worked as well or better than the methods used by our competitors, while adhering to our principles," he said. "And we are working to improve it every day."Parler, which launched in 2018, has emerged as a popular platform for President Donald Trump's allies in the last year by billing itself as a free speech alternative to mainstream social media services like Twitter and Facebook.Earlier on Saturday, a group of Amazon employees had called on the company to cut ties with Parler. In a tweet late Saturday, the group, Amazon Employees for Climate Justice, applauded the company's decision to drop Parler.— CNBC's Marty Steinberg contributed to this report.VIDEO1:3501:35Twitter has suspended President Trump permanently due to the risk of further incitement of violenceThe News with Shepard Smith

2021/01/05, An Amazon worker delivers packages amid the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak in Denver, Colorado, April 22, 2020.Kevin Mohatt | ReutersAmazon is relieving some of the pressure on third-party sellers who pack and ship their own orders due to ongoing coronavirus constraints on major shipping carriers.Last August, the company announced that, starting in February 2021, members of Amazon's Seller Fulfilled Prime program would be required to make deliveries on Saturdays and meet one- and two-day delivery targets.In a note sent to sellers on Tuesday that was viewed by CNBC, Amazon said it was temporarily relaxing the delivery speed targets for SFP members in response to pandemic-generated "constraints on the logistics industry." It means that Amazon will give SFP members a pass if they can't ensure one- and two-day delivery speeds for a portion of shoppers."While we know sellers like you are working to raise the bar for Prime customers, we also understand that the pandemic has introduced constraints on the logistics industry that you depend on to meet customer expectations," according to the note. "In recognition of these constraints, we are adjusting the one- and two-day delivery speed targets."An Amazon spokesperson confirmed to CNBC that the changes were announced to sellers on Tuesday.The SFP program, launched in 2016, enables third-party merchants to make inventory eligible for two-day shipping and display the vaunted Prime badge on their listings without paying for Amazon's fulfillment services, Fulfillment By Amazon.With SFP, sellers store their own products and pack their own orders, while delivery is managed by carriers such as the U.S. Postal Service, FedEx or UPS. Major carriers have experienced unprecedented strain on their systems throughout the coronavirus pandemic and the holiday shopping season as a result of elevated e-commerce activity.On top of that, UPS and FedEx are likely to face even tighter capacity constraints in the months ahead as they prioritize shipments of millions of doses of the coronavirus vaccine.Amazon measures an SFP member's ability to meet one- and two-day delivery targets based on how often those delivery options are shown to customers when they view a seller's product listing. As a result of the update on Tuesday, SFP members will only be required to guarantee delivery in two days or less for 55% of people who view their product listing.Beginning in June, SFP members will be required to show delivery speeds of two days or less for 70% of people who view their product listing. Sellers will still be required to support Saturday or Sunday delivery and pickups, as well as provide nationwide delivery coverage, beginning Feb. 1.Amazon announced the change last summer in order to give sellers plenty of time to prepare and communicate with carriers, the company said at the time. The move has garnered criticism from some third-party sellers who say it could burden their operations if they have to work on weekends.Sellers who fulfill orders on their own had struggled to meet Amazon's two-day delivery targets, even before the coronavirus pandemic. Fewer than 16% of SFP orders in the U.S. were delivered in two days, largely because sellers don't work on weekends, Amazon said last August.VIDEO4:0304:03Amazon hires Biden advisor's brother as lobbyist, raising ethics concernsSquawk Box

2020/12/30, In this articleAMZNTAPDavid Limp, senior vice president of devices and services at Amazon.com Inc., presents the Amazon Echo Dot smart speaker during an unveiling event at the company's Spheres headquarters in Seattle, Washington, U.S., on Thursday, Sept. 20, 2018.Andrew Burton | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesYou may have received an Amazon Echo as a gift during the holidays. If it's your first one, or even a second or third, you may be curious about some of the things it can do. While most folks may use it to ask about the weather or sports scores, Alexa can do a lot more than you might know.Here are some fun Amazon Echo tips and tricks to get you started.How to change the default music serviceIf you ask your Amazon Echo to play music it will default to Amazon Music. But you can change that to one of many services like Spotify, Apple Music, TuneIn, iHeartRadio, SiriusXM, Pandora, Deezer, Tidal and Vevo.Here's what you do:Open the Alexa app on your phone.Tap the "More" button on the bottom right.Choose "Settings."Select "Music & Podcasts."Tap "Default Services" at the top.Under "Music" tap "change" and select the music service you want to use. You may be prompted to sign into your music service of choice, so have your password ready.You can also change the default service for when you speak commands like "Play music by Bruce Springsteen," or "Play classical music" or "Play a rock station" and the default podcast app in this menu.How to call peopleYou can use an Echo to call anyone's phone or Echo, and it'll double as a big speakerphone when you do it. To do this, just configure a few things first:Open the Amazon appTap the menu button then tap "Contacts."Once you've confirmed a contact is in your address book, you can call that person by asking Alexa to call someone's phone or Echo. Here are the commands to use. (I put my own name in, but swap it out for who you're trying to call):"Call Todd Haselton's Mobile."Or you can call your contact's Echo by saying "Call Todd Haselton's Echo."How to share your shopping list with friends or familyAmazon recently added a feature that lets you share your shopping list with friends and family. Suppose you want to share your shopping list with a spouse, for example. You can do that by following these steps:First, you need to create a shopping list.You can do this in the Alexa app for iPhone or Android, tapping "more" and opening the "Lists & Notes" menu item and adding items under "Shopping." Or you can just tell Alexa to add items to your list by saying "Alexa, add soap to my shopping list."Next, you share the list by opening the Alexa app and tapping the Alexa button on the top of the screen and then speaking "Alexa, share my shopping list."Alexa will ask who you want to share it with. Then, speak the name of your friend or family member.How to use your Amazon Echo as an in-home intercomYou can use your Amazon Echo as an in-home intercom and announce things to every Echo in your house. That way, people will know if dinner is ready, or if you just want to let the kids that you're running out to the grocery store and don't want to shout. Here's what to do:Say "Alexa make an announcement."Speak your announcement by saying something like "Hey everyone, dinner's ready!"Alexa will make an announcement to all of the Echos in your house with the message you spoke.How to order stuff from Amazon with your Amazon EchoSay something like, "Alexa order coffee."Alexa will begin to list items that you might be interested in, including products from previous orders, and the price. Say "yes" to confirm you'd like to buy that item, or "no" to hear another suggestion.You can also order specific goods by speaking something like "Alexa, order me an Amazon Echo Plus." Alexa will confirm the price before you decide to buy it or not.How to get a news briefingAlexa can give you a quick news briefing from news outlets like CNBC. Here's how to set it up:Open the Alexa app on your phone.Tap the menu button on the bottom right of the screen.Choose "Settings."Tap "News."Choose "Flash briefing."Toggle the news outlets you want to hear news from and tap "+" to add new sources.Now, say, "Alexa play my flash briefing."Alexa will give you the highlight news from the sources you picked.How to customize Alexa with routinesAlexa lets you create custom routines for certain phrases you speak. So if you say "Alexa, good evening," it might automatically turn off some lights, turn on others and lock your doors. Or you can create a custom routine to start playing music and hear the weather in the morning.Here's what to do:Open the Alexa app on your phone.Tap the menu button on the top-left of the app.Tap "Routines."Tap the top button that says "When this happens."Choose "Voice."Enter the phrase "Good morning."Tap "Save."Now choose "Add action."Tap "Weather."Tap "Add."Now tap "Add action"Tap "Traffic."Now tap "Add action" again.Tap "Music."Enter in an artist, like Bruce Springsteen.Choose your music provider, such as Spotify.Tap Next.Tap "Create."How to set multiple timersMaybe you're cooking dinner and need to set multiple timers for different parts of your meal. Here's what you do:Say, Alexa set an oven timer for 45 minutes.Then speak another timer, like, "Set a marinade timer for 3 hours."You can check in a timer by saying "Alexa, what's the oven timer?" Or "Alexa, what's the marinade timer?"Alexa will alert you when the specific timer has ended.How to play music on multiple Amazon Echos at the same timeYour Amazon Echo can play music in different rooms of your house at the same time. It's easy to set up:Open the Alexa app on your phone.Tap Devices tab.Tap the + button on the top-right.Tap Combine speakers."Create a group name, such as "upstairs."Choose the Echos you want to include in the group.Tap "Save."How to set your Amazon Echo to detect sounds like glass breaking or smoke alarmsThis feature is useful if you want to get notifications about sounds your Amazon Echo hears when you're away from home. If you get an alert about a glass-breaking noise or a smoke alarm, you might want to have a neighbor check in on the house or check a camera to see if everything is OK. Here's how to set it up:Open the Alexa app on your phone.Tap the Devices tab on the bottom.Choose Guard.Tap the settings icon on the top-right.Select Sound Detection.Turn on options for "Smoke & CO Alarm Sounds" and "Glass Break."How to set your Amazon Echo to automatically turn on smart lights when you're away from homeYour Echo can help control your smart lights to make it look like you're home even when you're not. Do this:Open the Alexa app on your phone.Tap the Devices tab on the bottom.Choose Guard.Tap the settings icon on the top-right.Choose "Away Lighting."Input your zip code so Alexa knows when the sun sets at home.Choose the smart lights you want to automatically turn on when you're away.How to delete the recordings of things you've said to AlexaYou can delete recordings of all of the things you've asked Alexa. It's a built-in privacy feature that lets you review everything your Amazon Echo has picked up and regularly delete those requests. Here's what to do:Open the Alexa app on your phone.Choose the "More" tab on the bottom-right.Select "Settings."Choose "Alexa Privacy."Select "Review Voice History."Choose "Filter by Date" and select "All History."Select "Delete all of my recordings."VIDEO2:2702:27Amazon and Google are becoming omnipresent whether you like it or notTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/12/23, Sundar Pichai, chief executive officer of Alphabet Inc., gestures while speaking during a discussion on artificial intelligence at the Bruegel European economic think tank in Brussels, Belgium, on Monday, Jan. 20, 2020. Pichai urged the U.S. and European Union to coordinate regulatory approaches on artificial intelligence, calling their alignment critical.Geert Vanden Wijngaert | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesFor nearly as long as Google's been a publicly traded company, it has attempted various e-commerce efforts that have mostly failed to make much progress. That's making executives' latest push difficult to buy but impossible to ignore.The complications surrounding Google's history of failed e-commerce attempts became more prominent in 2020 when it couldn't capture the market when it needed it most. But experts say there's still hope for the search giant and its cash stockpile to gain some traction. What it needs is a plan firm enough to outlast its past failures."While leaders in the space are getting bigger and the bigger, the harder it gets for Google to compete with them," said e-commerce analyst Juozas Kaziukėnas. "It would take a massive change in the way we [shop] and it's just unclear what it wants to do to become a serious player in shopping. It looks like they're shooting for a few different ideas but there's no master plan for what they want to become when it comes to commerce."On the table is millions of dollars and a long-term ability to reel in buyers beyond the pandemic and in an accelerated time frame. 

2020/12/18, A pharmacist helps a customer at a Walgreens pharmacy in Wheeling, Illinois.Getty Images(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only).Pharmacy stocks were rocked in mid-November by the arrival of Amazon Pharmacy, one of a series of market-shaking moves by the Jeff Bezos-led disrupter.Though the tech giant's interest in health care was no surprise, traditional pharmacies like CVS and Walgreens Boots Alliance saw their shares fall sharply on Nov. 17, along with those of drug price marketplace GoodRx. A similar pattern held this month, with Teladoc sliding after a Dec. 16 report from Business Insider that Amazon was exploring a move into telehealth.The initial moves are a clear sign of Amazon's perceived power, but whether the short-term will transform into long-term struggles, however, is murkier. Some Wall Street analysts and financial advisors say these first-day stock slides are reacting more to Amazon's bark than its bite.

2020/12/18, Amazon fulfillment center warehouse.Getty ImagesAmazon workers at an Alabama warehouse are moving closer to holding a unionization vote, laying the groundwork to establish the first-ever labor union representation at a U.S. Amazon facility. Workers at an Amazon fulfillment center in Bessemer, Ala., located outside Birmingham, notified the National Labor Relations Board last month that they planned to hold an election to create a bargaining unit represented by the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. The NLRB on Thursday said it found "sufficient showing" to allow for a vote, rejecting Amazon's claims that the union hadn't drummed up enough support. At a hearing on Friday, Amazon and the union continued to disagree over the size of the potential bargaining unit and what employees should be eligible to vote. The hearing is also meant to iron out details such as when a union vote will happen and how it will take place. It's possible the hearing could take several days to resolve."The parties to this case have differing positions on certain job classifications as to whether those employees should be included in or excluded from an appropriate bargaining unit," said Terry Combs, assistant to the regional director for the NLRB's Atlanta region.To get the greenlight for an election, the NLRB typically wants 30% of workers to sign union authorization cards or petitions. In its petition, the union said the bargaining unit would cover 1,500 full- and part-time workers at the facility. Amazon has argued in documents submitted to the NLRB that the facility employs more than 5,700 people, suggesting that the union gathered fewer signatures than it needed to move forward with an election. It's unclear how Amazon arrived at that total. Amazon said in a 2018 announcement that it would employ 1,500 people at the facility.  Heather Knox, an Amazon spokesperson, said Amazon has created more than 5,000 full-time jobs in Bessemer, with average pay of $15.30 per hour, health care and other benefits. "We don't believe this group represents the majority of our employees' views," Knox said in a statement. "Our employees choose to work at Amazon because we offer some of the best jobs available everywhere we hire, and we encourage anyone to compare our overall pay, benefits, and workplace environment to any other company with similar jobs."An RWDSU spokesperson declined to comment. Labor unions have organized some of Amazon's European workforce, but no U.S. facility has successfully formed or joined a union. A successful union drive in Alabama would represent a groundbreaking shift for the country's second largest employer, which counts more than 1.37 million front-line Amazon and Whole Foods workers in the U.S.  The push to unionize in Alabama comes as Amazon has experienced growing unrest within its warehouse and delivery workforce during the pandemic. In recent months, some employees have held protests to demand safer working conditions, created online petitions to draw attention to their concerns and formed new worker groups. A website advertising the Alabama campaign says a union would help employees advocate for changes around safety, pay, disciplinary procedures and other workplace issues."Amazon has built decades of increasingly bold and aggressive attacks on workers' rights that have dramatically eroded union density, harmed working conditions, and lowered the standard of living for many workers. And it's not stopping," the website states. "Our union will not back down until Amazon is held accountable for these and so many more dangerous labor practices." Labor experts say the hearing is just the beginning of what's likely to be a long road ahead for the Alabama workers' union drive. Amazon has taken an aggressive stance against unions in the past, by clearly voicing its opposition to them with workers. But it could only take one successful campaign at an Amazon facility to inspire others to follow suit. "If it's successful, I think it will send a message that there is some hope for workers to organize," said Tom Kochan, a professor of industrial relations, work and employment at MIT. "But it's a big uphill battle because you've got to organize one warehouse at a time, which takes an enormous amount of resources."VIDEO19:1619:16How Amazon fends off unions as labor rights groups rally workers to protestTech

2020/12/22, VIDEO2:3702:37Alabama Amazon workers could vote to unionize in 2021TechAmazon and a retail union looking to represent some of the company's Alabama warehouse workers reached an agreement Tuesday on the size of a potential bargaining unit, bringing the union one step closer to an election.  If successful, the Alabama union drive would establish the first-ever labor union representation at a U.S. Amazon facility. Unions have a stronger foothold among some of Amazon's European workforce, but the company has largely managed to thwart organizing efforts in the U.S. However, in recent years, protests tied to Prime Day and other events, as well as the coronavirus pandemic, have hinted at rising organizing efforts across the country. Amazon hasn't faced a substantial union vote since 2014, when repair technicians at a Delaware warehouse failed to garner enough votes to form a union.Tuesday's agreement capped off a three-day long hearing in front of the National Labor Relations Board, during which lawyers for Amazon and the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union ironed out details around what employees should be allowed to vote in the election. Last month, workers at the Amazon facility in Bessemer, Ala., notified the NLRB of their plans to hold a vote on whether to be represented by the RWDSU. In its petition, the union said the bargaining unit would cover 1,500 full- and part-time workers at the facility.The NLRB last week said it found "sufficient showing" for a vote. Amazon said additional workers should be allowed to vote, arguing the facility employs 5,700 people.On Tuesday, Amazon and the union came to a consensus to include a broader range of employees in the proposed bargaining unit, including seasonal employees brought on to help handle holiday demand, along with other positions concerning onsite medical care, training and safety, among other fields. It means that thousands of additional employees will be eligible to participate in the election.  Now, it's up to the board to determine when and how the union vote will be held. The board is expected to issue a decision directing the election in early to mid-January, which means a vote likely won't take place until later that month. Amazon and union still at odds over election venueAmazon and the union remain in disagreement over how the election should be held by mail or in-person at the Bessemer facility, known as BHM1. At Tuesday's hearing, an NLRB official highlighted that mail-in ballots have been used in all 30 cases that have been presented since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic. The board also raised concerns that, in order to conduct an in-person election, additional NLRB board agents would be required to travel into Jefferson County, which has a high Covid-positive rate. Harry Johnson, a lawyer representing Amazon, argued the vote should take place at the Bessemer facility and pointed to the company's extensive efforts to sanitize the facility. Johnson also suggested Amazon could rent out a hotel for NLRB staff to stay at during the election.Amazon's move to hold an in-person election drew a rebuke from Richard Rouco, an attorney who represents the union, who said: "I know Amazon thinks it has special rules, or that it can create itself a bubble or rent hotels or do a bunch of other things in order to contain the virus, but that's not the standard." In November, the NLRB released a set of guidelines around conducting elections during the pandemic, which suggested that mail-in ballots are preferred when the 14-day positivity rate in the county where the facility is located is 5% or higher. An NLRB official in the hearing said the positivity rate in Jefferson County is above 14%. Watch: How Amazon fends off unions as more workers hold protestsVIDEO19:1619:16How Amazon fends off unions as labor rights groups rally workers to protestTech

2020/12/26, In this articleAMZNVIDEO3:4303:43Amazon hires lobbyist with ties to President-elect Joe Biden's White House counselWorldwide ExchangeThe brother to one of President-elect Joe Biden's closest advisors just picked up Amazon as a new client.Jeff Ricchetti, the brother of Biden's White House counselor Steve Ricchetti, recently secured a lobbying contract with Amazon, according to a new lobbying disclosure report.The report shows Ricchetti registered to lobby for Amazon.com Services LLC., on Nov. 13, just a week after Biden was projected to defeat President Donald Trump. Amazon lists the limited liability business on its website as part of its group of companies.Ethics attorneys have previously told CNBC that Steve Ricchetti, who was also once a lobbyist over a decade ago, may have to recuse himself from matters that could impact his brother's clients.A person familiar with the brothers' relationship said they keep their professional lives entirely separate and that Jeff Ricchetti would never lobby Steve Ricchetti."Jeff has never and will never lobby his brother on behalf of any of his clients, and Steve has had no role in his brother's business since he sold his stake in the firm in 2012," the source told CNBC. "Steve and Jeff keep their professional activities distinctly separate." This person declined to be named as the relationship is private.Biden's stance on Amazon has included calls for the company to start paying their taxes."I don't think any company, I don't give a damn how big they are, the Lord almighty, should absolutely be in a position where they pay no tax and make billions and billions and billions of dollars, No. 1," Biden said during a "Squawk Box" interview in May.The disclosure report shows that Jeff Ricchetti will be lobbying Amazon on issues pertaining to the coronavirus pandemic and the implementation of the CARES Act. Amazon appears to be on the verge of expanding their health care business known as Amazon Care.The Amazon client is the latest for Ricchetti since Biden was the projected winner of the 2020 election.VIDEO4:0304:03Amazon hires Biden advisor's brother as lobbyist, raising ethics concernsSquawk BoxRicchetti also registered to lobby for Evofem Biosciences on Nov. 15., days after he officially started work for Amazon. Ricchetti will focus on "federal health policies pertaining to coverage for contraceptive services," for Evofem, according to the lobbying disclosure report.For Amazon, it's the latest move to quietly start preparing for the incoming Biden administration.Reuters reported that two officials at the e-commerce company are working on the Biden agency review team. Amazon executives are reportedly pushing allies for roles inside the Biden administration.During the Trump administration, Amazon did hire those close to the president for lobbying work. One of those lobbyists was Jeff Miller, a longtime fundraiser for Trump's campaign.Amazon and Jeff Ricchetti did not return CNBC's requests for comment.VIDEO3:1503:15Former Vice President Joe Biden: 'Amazon should start paying their taxes'Squawk BoxCorrection: This story was updated with the correct name of the Amazon subsidiary that hired Jeff Ricchetti.

2021/02/09, Staff make their way around the aisles collecting items before sending them to the on-site dispatch hall to be packaged inside one of Britain's largest Amazon warehouses in Dunfermline, Fife.Jane Barlow | PA Images | Getty ImagesBEIJING — Big investors are pouring money into warehouses in Europe as online shopping for goods — some all the way from China — takes off in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.E-commerce was already growing before the emergence of Covid-19 forced people to stay home and storefronts to close. Now, the pandemic has likely sped up the pace of e-commerce adoption by about 12 months, real estate consultancy Savills said in a December report citing the Centre for Retail Research.One of the biggest challenges for businesses wanting to take advantage of the trend is finding ways to fulfill orders more quickly. Companies that once relied on supply chains spread around the world face a shortage of shipping containers, resulting in high delivery costs and long wait times.The new strategy is finding warehouses near customers and stocking them ahead of time, so shoppers can get their orders in just a few days or less.That's caused a surge in warehouse demand, driving vacancy rates in Europe to a record low of around 5% — and the rate is still falling, said Marcus de Minckwitz, director of the omnichannel group in London for Savills."Throughout the course of 2020 we saw record take-up of warehouse space in the continent, led by the U.K.," he said. "Drivers of that have been Amazon and then third-party logistics providers."An Amazon warehouse is seen in Belfast Harbour, as the spread of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) continues, Belfast, Northern Ireland, April 6, 2020.Jason Cairnduff | ReutersTotal investment in European logistics last year rose to 38.64 billion euros ($46.5 billion), the highest on record since 2013, according to Savills.Now, Europe awaits more demand from Chinese e-commerce players entering the market, led by Alibaba, de Minckwitz said.Alibaba has been expanding its cross-border e-commerce business, primarily through its AliExpress platform and Cainiao logistics arm.The company cited rapid growth in cross-border e-commerce as contributing to a 51% year-on-year surge in Cainiao's revenue to $1.74 billion in the last three months of 2020. Revenue from international commerce wholesale rose 53% to $577 million during that time, according to Alibaba.Some of the biggest firms in the investing world are taking note of the trend.Singapore's sovereign wealth fund GIC announced two deals late last year to expand distribution centers and other logistics properties in Europe.U.S. private equity giant Blackstone — which was already investing in warehouses in Europe and America — completed last month a $1.1 billion acquisition of a majority stake in a logistics hub in southern China.Singapore-based GLP, which manages $97 billion in real estate and private equity funds, said leasing activity grew 69% in Europe last year with about 11 million square feet of agreements with major e-commerce and parcel delivery companies such as Amazon, DHL and XPO Logistics. Chinese courier giant SF Express also signed its first lease in Europe, GLP said.E-commerce boosts China's exportsChinese authorities are also talking up the impact on trade.Cross-border e-commerce between China and other countries surged 31.1% last year to 1.69 trillion yuan, primarily in exports, according to the national customs agency. As a result, overseas warehouses rose 80% from a year ago to more than 1,800 in 2020, the Commerce Ministry said in January.VIDEO2:3002:30China's cross-border e-commerce saw robust growth in 2020: CEOStreet Signs AsiaDiane Wang, founder and chairperson of Chinese e-commerce site DHgate, said last month the company has 10 warehouses overseas and would like to add more in Europe, particularly in the U.K. and France.About half of products are pre-stored abroad so customers can receive their orders in about three days, she said. Wang expects cross-border e-commerce will grow from about 5% of China's international trade to 30% in the next decade.No official data by country or region was available, but anecdotes indicate much of the overseas interest in e-commerce with China comes from Europe. The region is already one of China's top trading partners."A lot of people are buying the Chinese products in Europe," said Suresh Dalai, senior director at consulting firm Alvarez & Marsal, which focuses on retail operations in Asia. He expects more investment in technology for tracking orders, same-day delivery and storing packages in centralized lockers so consumers can pick up parcels at their convenience."There is a lot of demand to go around. I don't think (new Chinese players) really impacts Alibaba that much," Dalai said. "I think it helps because it just spurs additional investment in warehouses and technology, and more and more consumers get used to shopping cross-border, and shopping on Chinese-created websites."Correction: This story was updated to reflect that DHgate would like to add more warehouses in Europe. A previous version mischaracterized the potential expansion.

2021/01/26, An Amazon warehouse is seen in Belfast Harbour, as the spread of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) continues, Belfast, Northern Ireland, April 6, 2020.Jason Cairnduff | ReutersAmazon has halted sales of wines, beers and spirits in Northern Ireland and is preparing to de-list more products due to new Brexit customs rules, broadcaster ITV reported on Tuesday.The online retailer is concerned that excise duty will now have to be paid twice on shipments of alcohol which are sent from the British mainland across the Irish Sea to Northern Ireland, ITV reported.Britain left the European Union's single market and customs union at 2300 GMT on New Year's Eve, introducing paperwork and customs declarations for those businesses that import and export goods with the bloc.In order to keep the border open between the British province of Northern Ireland and EU member Ireland, a separate agreement was struck that requires a regulatory border in the Irish Sea between Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom.

2020/12/29, In this articleMSFTAMZNAAPLVIDEO7:0707:07Apple, Amazon and Microsoft: Ride the wave or time to pivot?Trading NationRide the wave or run for the hills?That's how two traders approached Amazon, Apple and Microsoft on Monday as the broader market continued its march to record highs.The three tech giants' stocks are responsible for more than half of the S&P 500's gains this year, according to Reuters and S&P Dow Jones Indices.Newton Advisors' Mark Newton and BK Asset Management's Boris Schlossberg told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Monday that it wasn't yet time to sell."If there's any one message, it's that consolidation sometimes can be something that refreshes," said Newton, founder and president of his firm. "It doesn't necessarily mean that the stocks are rolling over."Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsPointing to a chart of Amazon, he noted that the shares have "started to kick back into gear," saying one of their recent breakouts paves the way for a run to $3,450 or $3,500 a share.Amazon was up nearly 1% to around $3,315.73 in early Tuesday trading."Of the larger names, this is one that I would own," Newton said. "I certainly would stick in the FAANG stocks."Fellow FAANG member Apple didn't look quite as "appealing" as Amazon, Newton said. FAANG is a widely used acronym for the stocks of Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet."This is a stock that I don't mind trimming into end of year as it approaches these all-time highs," he said. "This one for me is not as big of a risk-reward."Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsNewton's bottom line, however, was unwavering."Until you start to see meaningful weakness, it's still going to be right to stick with these stocks. It's just not enough to suggest that getting out of the group as a whole makes a whole lot of sense right now," he said. "Really, until the group violates September lows, one still wants to be in them."Schlossberg, who is managing director of FX strategy at BK Asset Management, said all three tech juggernauts "should continue to dominate in the near term.""In a digital economy, the companies that have economies of scale, they're all rewarded, and every one of these companies has huge economies of scale," Schlossberg said. "In fact, I think the single biggest business threat to Apple, Amazon and Microsoft is really from regulators, not competition."He predicted that a Biden administration's preoccupation with mitigating the Covid-19 crisis and ushering along an economic recovery would postpone near-term regulatory threats to the group."In the meantime, Apple has a new phone cycle coming up, Amazon continues to garner share in the retail space and Microsoft just completely dominates the corporate space," he said. "For me, I just don't think there's any reason for investors to abandon what's working. You'll have some minor fluctuations, but overall, as I said, the spoils go to the winner, and in this economy, it's a winner-takes-all type of a structure."Disclaimer

2021/02/05, In this articleAMZNYou can ask Alexa to find the nearest place to get a Covid-19 test.Todd Haselton | CNBCAmazon recently added a new feature to its Alexa voice assistant that lets you find the nearest place to get a Covid-19 test.It works on phones and through the Amazon Echo smart speaker. I think it's best on a phone or on an Echo with a screen since it shows you a list of the nearby locations and how far each place is. Here's what you do.Open the Alexa app on your phone.Touch the "Tap to talk to Alexa" button at the top.Say: "Where can I get tested for Covid-19?"Alexa will return a list of nearby places using data pulled from GISCorps and other sources, such as Yelp. In my case, it showed eight places within 10 miles from me. If you tap a location, you'll see a phone number you can call to confirm that there are appointments available, if one is needed.If you're using an Echo that doesn't show each location, just say, "Alexa, call the first one" to call the recommended testing location.VIDEO2:2702:27Amazon and Google are becoming omnipresent whether you like it or notTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/12/08, In this articleAMZNGetty ImagesJason Lautenschleger's novelty board game business has seen its sales skyrocket tenfold on Amazon this year as the coronavirus pandemic forced people indoors and they looked to stay entertained.A few months ago, Lautenschleger launched two new game titles based on the popular comedy films "Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy" and "Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure." With the coronavirus still raging and the holidays around the corner, he thought it would be the perfect time to release the new games."Apparently our timing could not have been worse and the reason is ridiculous," Lautenschleger, co-founder of Barry & Jason Games, wrote in a blog post last month. Lautenschleger is one of several Amazon sellers who are up in arms over a recent policy change meant to help the company conserve space in its warehouses as it faces a pandemic-fueled surge in e-commerce demand alongside the peak holiday shopping season. Jason Lautenschleger and Barry McLaughlin's novelty games business has been struggling to handle the challenges posed by Amazon's warehouse storage policy.Barry & Jason Games & EntertainmentIn August, Amazon put in place stricter quantity limits on shipments from third-party sellers that use its fulfillment service to package and ship orders, known as Fulfillment by Amazon, or FBA. The limits apply to all product categories and differ on an item-by-item basis.For Lautenschleger, it means he can only send in roughly 230 units per shipment of his fast-selling "Anchorman: The Game," whereas he would've sent in thousands of units of a hot-selling item in years past.VIDEO2:4302:43Big box stores are ramping up sales to keep up with Amazon's Prime DayE-CommerceWith the Anchorman game out of stock, Lautenschleger said all he can do is send in more inventory and wait for it to arrive at FBA warehouses. In the meantime, he said he's losing out on potential sales, which could have lasting consequences for his business, like determining how many new employees he can afford to hire in the new year."You have to sell the products to be able to send them in, but you have to have them in in order to sell them," Lautenschleger said in an interview with CNBC. "So that's the Catch-22 that we find ourselves in now."When Amazon announced the policy in August, it said the quantity limits would help ensure all sellers using FBA have space to store their products. The initiative was also meant to prevent the kinds of supply chain bottlenecks and delivery delays Amazon experienced during the early months of the pandemic. Few periods are as important for Amazon to live up to its two-day delivery promise and reputation as the "Everything Store" than the holiday shopping season. This year is forecast to be busier than ever, with U.S. shoppers expected to spend $189 billion online in November and December, a 33% increase year over year, according to Adobe Analytics. It's not just Amazon that is feeling the pressure this holiday season. Many retailers, and also the National Retail Federation, have warned consumers to get their holiday shopping done early to avoid potential shipping chaos and to make sure they receive their gifts on time. Big-box retailers like Walmart and Target have pointed shoppers to curbside pickup in order to fulfill orders quickly, while on-demand delivery companies such as Postmates, Instacart and DoorDash have partnered up with companies like Sephora, Macy's and Estee Lauder's Le Labo to get items to people's homes.There are also fears of a significant capacity shortfall among major shipping carriers FedEx, the U.S. Postal Service and UPS, which reportedly told its drivers on Cyber Monday to stop picking up packages from some of the largest U.S. retailers after they exceeded their allocated volumes.Amazon has ramped up capacity since March, growing its warehouse footprint across the country at an unprecedented speed. The company expects to increase its network square footage, which includes fulfillment center space, along with sort centers and delivery stations, by 50% this year, up from 15% growth in 2019.Even with the added capacity, Amazon still had to take steps to conserve space in its U.S. warehouses, by limiting storage of third-party sellers' products and its own goods."I don't think they've been quite able to get a grasp of the forecast," said Cathy Morrow Roberson, founder of consulting firm Logistics Trends & Insights. "When they said back in the third quarter that they were going to have 50% more space, that may have been adequate at the beginning of this year, but because of Covid, it's no longer adequate."'It's killing us'Sellers say they understand why Amazon needed to limit the size of shipments into its warehouses, but they feel the policy puts them in a bind during a holiday that's already proven challenging due to the pandemic. The inventory-related struggles come as Amazon has highlighted success of small businesses on its platform on this year's pandemic-delayed Prime Day as well as on Black Friday and Cyber Monday.While the inventory restrictions aren't limited to third-party sellers — Amazon has previously said it's metering storage of its own products, too, in its warehouses — merchants said they felt like they had little say in how the limits are determined.Several sellers who spoke to CNBC said they expect to finish out the year with sales up significantly from 2019, but that revenue could be better if not for the inventory restrictions.Steven Pope, who sells wine glasses on Amazon, expressed frustration over how the company determined the quantity limits. Pope and other sellers who spoke to CNBC said Amazon calculates how many units they can send in by looking at the last 90 days of sales for a particular product. For new products, it's even more strict, since there's a "hard cap" of 200 units, Pope said.One of Momstir's top-selling wine glasses won't be in stock until next week.Merchants who sell holiday products told CNBC that they felt the company wasn't taking seasonality into account when determining the quantity limits.One Amazon seller, who asked to remain anonymous, told CNBC they offer a popular Christmas bag on Amazon and are able to send in 50 units per shipment. However, they sell about 40 units per day and only have 150 units left in stock. The seller said they'll likely need to restock soon, but they're concerned they won't be able to ship it in time for the rest of the holiday shopping rush.An Amazon spokesperson said the company does factor in seasonality, along with a seller's historical sales, forecast demand and the capacity available in its fulfillment centers, when setting quantity limits. The Amazon spokesperson didn't answer specific questions around how far the company looks back when it assesses historical sales.For new products, the company said it initially limits shipments to 200 units until sellers a build product sales history, but that it periodically evaluates and updates the minimum quantity so that a large majority of new products have enough units to establish a product sales history.In August, Amazon told merchants if they sell all of their stock they could send in more inventory at any time. But sellers say it's not that easy, since there are delays when they ship products to Amazon's warehouses.Jerry Kavesh, an Amazon merchant who sells cowboy boots, hats, belts and other items, said he's been "sending in product like crazy," but it has taken anywhere from 10 days to two weeks for it to enter FBA warehouses. Before, it would take only two to four days."We're out of stock in our warehouse and I know I have 30 units at Amazon, but they're being processed," Kavesh said in a recent interview. "It's been that way for five days. It's killing us."The Amazon spokesperson said it checks in seller inventory, on average, within three to five days of its arrival at its warehouses. The company added that some sellers may experience longer inbound times based on the facility they're shipping to.Pope said one of the top wine glasses sold by his business, Momstir, is now very close to stocking out, at a time when he typically sees a 400% spike in sales between Black Friday and Christmas. It means he'll likely lose out on a significant chunk of holiday sales this year."I was projecting I was going to probably do half a million just in December and now, realistically, I'm going to tap out at $310,000," Pope said. "It's depressing."Once an inventory limit is determined for a product, sellers can't appeal to Amazon to ask that their limit be increased. A notice sent to sellers and viewed by CNBC says the company isn't "accepting requests for higher quantity limits" and notes that "shipping a quantity above your limit may result in account suspension."Sellers are also concerned that if they run out of stock, their listing may be penalized in Amazon's search ranking algorithms. Amazon will push listings down further in search results if it detects they are running low on inventory or are out of stock, sellers claim. An issue in the early months of the pandemic, some sellers previously raised prices on their products or cut back on advertising to avoid the same painful fate.The amount of inventory sellers can send in this year is a far cry from what they'd usually have in stock. Lautenschleger, who helps run the novelty game business, said he'd typically send in 5,000 units in late summer, monitor sales in September and October, then send in another batch depending on feedback.With FBA warehouses continuing to limit inventory shipments, some sellers have chosen to fulfill orders themselves or, like Lautenschleger's businesses, have turned to third-party logistics providers to get products out the door in time for the holidays. Lautenschleger added that he considers his business to be "one of the lucky ones," since it also sells products at Target and on its own website."My job is to come up with new games," Lautenschleger said. "I'm trying to grow our company in so many other ways, that for me to suddenly have to take on a daily inventory watch job, that was not in the cards of an already busy year."VIDEO4:1004:10How the pandemic could change Black Friday promotions foreverSquawk Box

2020/12/15, In this articleAMZNPeter Endig | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon is encouraging front-line employees in California to get weekly Covid-19 tests, as the state rolls out new emergency workplace protections for the coronavirus."In accordance with Cal/OSHA's new Covid-19 emergency regulations, we encourage all Amazon employees to get tested for Covid-19 at least once a week starting the week of December 14th," says a notice posted on an internal company web site used by warehouse workers and drivers.A separate notice sent to Whole Foods workers says "WFM [Whole Foods Market] will offer Covid-19 testing to team members once a week (every seven days), and we encourage all team members to participate." Earlier this month, California's division of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration issued new rules around coronavirus workplace safety measures. The emergency regulations require employers to provide Covid testing when there are multiple infections or outbreaks in the workplace. It also strengthens rules around case tracking, reporting and communication of procedures with employees.  The tests are being administered at third-party urgent care clinics run by Concentra, a national health care company part-owned by Select Medical Holdings. Concentra will notify employees of their test results.The notice to Amazon employees told them to get tested outside of their scheduled working hours, and said they will receive up to 1.5 hours of compensation as reimbursement for costs associated with "time and travel." The separate notice to Whole Foods employees said the costs of the tests will be covered.Where available, some warehouse workers can get tested under Amazon's own testing program, which began rolling out over the summer. Under that program, employees test themselves onsite with nasal swabs, using a video for guidance, with a professional supervising. The company's stated goal was to test the bulk of warehouse workers every two weeks. However, Amazon has been slower to offer testing for the legions of Whole Foods employees who work out of nearly 500 locations across the U.S.  Whole Worker, an employee advocacy group, has called for the company to provide free coronavirus testing for all team members, including part-time and seasonal.It's unclear if Amazon or Whole Foods will keep track of how many employees sign up to get tested at the outside clinics or if workers' results will be shared with their employer.  The move to provide testing to California workers comes as California Attorney General Xavier Becerra is investigating Amazon's coronavirus safety measures at warehouses in the state. On Monday, Becerra asked a Sacramento County Superior Court Judge to order the company to comply with its subpoenas for more information on the number of coronavirus infections and deaths at California facilities, among other data. He alleged Amazon has yet to provide adequate information, which Amazon denied. Amazon in October disclosed that nearly 20,000 of its roughly 1.37 million Amazon and Whole Foods employees contracted Covid-19 between March 1 and Sept. 19. The company said the rate of infection among employees was 42% lower than expected, compared with the general population rate in the U.S.A spokesperson for Amazon did not immediately provide comment. Whole Foods did not respond to requests for comment.VIDEO1:1801:18Amazon reports 19K front-line workers test positive for Covid-19The News with Shepard Smith

2021/02/03, Plant-based Beyond Meat products seen in a Target superstore.Alex Tai | LightRocket | Getty ImagesHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Wednesday:

2020/12/14, In this articleAMZNAmazon workers at Amazon's Staten Island warehouse strike in demand that the facility be shut down and cleaned after one staffer tested positive for the coronavirus on March 30, 2020 in New York.Angela Weiss | AFP | Getty ImagesCalifornia State Attorney General Xavier Becerra is seeking to force Amazon to cooperate with a months-long investigation into its treatment of warehouse workers during the coronavirus pandemic.In the spring, Becerra launched a probe looking into working conditions at Amazon's California warehouses during the pandemic. As part of the probe, Becerra contacted Amazon on Aug. 19 to gather more information on coronavirus-related data, policies, practices and procedures.Now, Becerra alleges Amazon has failed to adequately respond to the office's subpoena and he's asking a Sacramento County Superior Court judge to order Amazon to comply with its requests, according to a court filing published Monday."It has been nearly six months since the Attorney General's initial request to Amazon," the filing states. "The slow drip of information from Amazon is an insufficient response."Without sufficient information, the attorney general can't "adequately determine" if the company is complying with California laws to protect its workers from the coronavirus, according to the filing.An Amazon spokesperson told CNBC in a statement that the company has been cooperating with Becerra's office for months."We're puzzled by the Attorney General's sudden rush to court because we've been working cooperatively for months and their claims of noncompliance with their demands don't line up with the facts," the spokesperson said, adding that Amazon has invested billions of dollars in equipment and technology to keep employees safe from the coronavirus.Amazon warehouse workers have routinely criticized the company's response to the pandemic over the past several months, saying it failed to adequately protect them from the coronavirus. Amazon and its CEO, Jeff Bezos, have pushed back on these accusations, saying the company has gone to "great lengths" to safeguard workers.Amazon in October disclosed that nearly 20,000 front-line employees contracted Covid-19 between March 1 and Sept. 19. The company said the rate of infection among employees was 42% lower than expected, compared with the general population rate in the U.S.In the subpoenas, Becerra requested specific details from Amazon on its sick leave policies, cleaning procedures and "raw data" on the number of coronavirus infections and deaths at its facilities in the state. Amazon provided the office with a "small amount of imprecise information," according to the court filing.The attorney general "learned more from media reports and press releases than from Amazon directly," the filing adds.The information requested by the office from Amazon has become increasingly crucial as the spread of the coronavirus continues to accelerate across the country, the filing notes. The virus has now infected more than 16.4 million people killed more than 300,000 in the U.S., NBC News reports."It's critical to know if these workers are receiving the protections on the job that they are entitled to under the law," Becerra said in a statement. "Time is of the essence."Becerra is set to play a key role in the nation's response to the coronavirus pandemic after President-elect Joe Biden selected him to lead the Department of Health and Human Services.VIDEO1:1801:18Amazon reports 19K front-line workers test positive for Covid-19The News with Shepard Smith

2021/01/21, Tim Cook at Apple EventSource: AppleHere are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Thursday:

2020/12/30, Amazon Echo Dot speakerCNBC | Richard WashingtonAmazon announced Wednesday that it's acquiring podcasting company Wondery, expanding its catalog of original audio content.As part of the deal, Wondery will join Amazon Music, the e-commerce giant's music streaming business. Amazon Music in September added podcasts to its platform, looking to carve out a share of the increasingly competitive podcasting market, in which Spotify, Apple and others have gained ground.Terms of the deal weren't disclosed. An Amazon spokesperson declined to comment. Wondery declined to comment.Wondery, founded in 2016, has produced some of the most popular podcasts in recent years, including true crime series like "Dirty John," "Dr. Death" and "Over My Dead Body." The podcast producer and network says it counts more than 10 million unique listeners each month.  Speculation of the deal had been building since earlier this month, when The Wall Street Journal reported Amazon was in talks to acquire the podcaster. Bloomberg reported in September that Wondery was exploring a sale.The deal comes at a time when Spotify, Apple and others continue to jockey for dominance in the podcasting market. Amazon, Apple and Spotify have all sought to add podcasts to their streaming services as the medium has become the most popular way to listen to music and it allows them to differentiate their services with original podcasts.Spotify has invested heavily in producing original podcasts, including, most recently, a deal with Prince Harry and wife Meghan Markle. It has also acquired four companies to expand its library, including The Ringer, Gimlet Media, Anchor and Parcast. Meanwhile, Apple has slowly expanded its original podcast efforts and its Podcast app is installed on iPhones by default.Amazon has a foothold in audio content beyond Amazon Music. The company also owns Audible, which hosts audiobooks and podcasts. The service has expanded its original audio content over the past few years, as well as beefed up its slate of free podcasts, including popular shows "This American Life," "Pod Save America" and "You're Wrong About."VIDEO8:3508:35This is how Spotify hopes to win the podcasting warsEvolve

2021/01/11, VIDEO3:5103:51Chamber's Donohue on businesses halting political donations in response to riotClosing BellTech companies including Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft announced Monday they are pausing contributions from their political action committees in the wake of the invasion of the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday by insurgents incited by President Donald Trump. Companies from other industries have taken a similar stand.Here are the tech and media companies that have announced plans to pause PACs so far.AmazonAmazon late Monday announced it will pause donations from its PAC to lawmakers who voted against the certification of the presidential election results."We intend to discuss our concerns directly with those Members we have previously supported and will evaluate their responses as we consider future PAC contributions," an Amazon spokeswoman said in a statement. Federal Election Commission data shows that Amazon's PAC also contributed to Cruz's senate campaign in 2017 and 2018. Some legislators that Amazon backs voted against the certification of the presidential election result, according to records from the FEC and the Center for Responsive Politics' OpenSecrets website.Facebook"Following last week's awful violence in D.C., we are pausing all of our PAC contributions for at least the current quarter, while we review our policies," a Facebook spokesman said in a statement. Facebook did not appear to donate to either candidate in the past few election cycles.Axios first reported Facebook's plans to halt political donations.GoogleGoogle also said it would halt contributions from its PAC in light of the recent events. "We have frozen all NetPAC political contributions while we review and reassess its policies following last week's deeply troubling events," a Google spokesperson said.Google's PAC donated to Cruz's Senate campaign in 2017 and 2018.MicrosoftMicrosoft said it had decided last Friday to assess "the implications of last week's events" before making additional contributions from its PAC. "The PAC regularly pauses its donations in the first quarter of a new Congress, but it will take additional steps this year to consider these recent events and consult with employees," Microsoft said in a statement.Federal Election Commission data shows Microsoft's PAC donated in 2018 to the senate campaign of Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, one of the lawmakers who sought to object to President-elect Joe Biden's Electoral votes, and the 2016 Missouri attorney general campaign for Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., who joined Cruz in the effort.AirbnbWhile Microsoft, Google and Facebook are taking a broad approach to halting contributions, others have been more targeted. Airbnb said on Monday its PAC will "withhold support from those who voted against the certification of the presidential election results." Airbnb did not appear to donate to either candidate in the past few election cycles.AT&TAn AT&T spokesperson similarly the company's PAC will "suspend contributions to members of Congress who voted to object to the certification of Electoral College votes last week." AT&T's PAC gave to Cruz and Hawley's Senate campaigns as recently as last year.Verizon"We will be suspending contributions to any member of Congress who voted in favor of objecting to the election results.," Verizon said on Monday. Verizon's PAC donated to Cruz's Senate campaign as recently as last year.T-MobileT-Mobile hasn't said it will pause giving yet but said would "reevaluate" its PAC contributions. T-Mobile's PAC gave to Cruz and Hawley's Senate campaigns as recently as last year.ComcastThe cable and media giant is suspending contributions to elected officials who voted against certifying the presidential election results. Comcast's PAC contributed to Cruz's Senate campaign in 2017 and 2018."The peaceful transition of power is a foundation of America's democracy," the company wrote in a statement. "Consistent with this view, we will suspend all of our political contributions to those elected officials who voted against certification of the electoral college votes, which will give us the opportunity to review our political giving policies and practices."Disclosure: Comcast owns NBCUniversal, the parent company of CNBC.VIDEO3:0103:01Social media platforms block Trump after violence on Capitol HillTech

2021/01/11, In this articleAMZNA general view of the the Parler app icon displayed on an iPhone on January 9, 2021 in London, England.Hollie Adams | Getty Images News | Getty ImagesParler, a social media app popular with conservatives and supporters of President Donald Trump, has gone offline after Amazon withdrew its support in the wake of the deadly U.S. Capitol riot last week.The app was reliant on cloud computing power provided by Amazon Web Services.AWS told Parler on Saturday that it will no longer provide cloud services to the company beginning on Sunday at 11:59 p.m. PT, according to an email obtained by CNBC. An Amazon spokesperson confirmed the authenticity of the letter to CNBC. John Matze, the founder and CEO, said in a statement on Monday that the Parler app will be down "longer than expected" because other cloud hosting companies do not want to work with Parler in light of the press statements issued by Amazon, Google and Apple."We will likely be down longer than expected," wrote Matze. "This is not due to software restrictions — we have our software and everyone's data ready to go. Rather it's that Amazon's, Google's and Apple's statements to the press about dropping our access has caused most of our other vendors to drop their support for us as well."He added: "Most people with enough servers to host us have shut their doors to us. We will update everyone and update the press when we are back online."AWS told Parler in the email that it had flagged 98 examples to Parler of posts that "clearly encourage and incite violence." Among the posts it reported to Parler, which were viewed by CNBC, users on the platform made violent threats directed at "liberal leaders, liberal activists #blm leaders and supporters," in addition to other groups.Screenshots of the Parler app viewed by CNBC show users posting references to firing squads, as well as calls to bring weapons to the presidential inauguration later this month.Matze condemned the tech giants' moves in a series of posts on Parler over the weekend, claiming that his platform had removed its violent content and adding that its community guidelines don't allow Parler to be knowingly used for criminal activity. "We are the worlds [sic] last hope for free speech and free information. What they are doing is unprecedented, unfounded and absolutely disgusting," Matze wrote late Saturday night. "They want to keep their monopoly over speech."In response to this, an AWS spokesperson told CNBC that AWS provides services to customers across the political spectrum, and confirmed that the suspension took place over content that the company says clearly encouraged violence."We respect Parler's right to determine for itself what content it will allow," said an AWS spokesperson. "However, it is clear that there is significant content on Parler that encourages and incites violence against others, and that Parler is unable or unwilling to promptly identify and remove this content, which is a violation of our terms of service." They added: "We made our concerns known to Parler over a number of weeks and during that time we saw a significant increase in this type of dangerous content, not a decrease, which led to our suspension of their services Sunday evening." Apple removed Parler from the iPhone App Store on Saturday. The company said that posts on Parler related to the U.S. Capitol riot last week included calls for violence, which violates Apple's rules against objectionable content."We have always supported diverse points of view being represented on the App Store, but there is no place on our platform for threats of violence and illegal activity," an Apple representative said in a statement. "Parler has not taken adequate measures to address the proliferation of these threats to people's safety. We have suspended Parler from the App Store until they resolve these issues."Google removed Parler from its Android app store, Google Play, on Friday."In order to protect user safety on Google Play, our longstanding policies require that apps displaying user-generated content have moderation policies and enforcement that removes egregious content like posts that incite violence," said a Google spokesperson."All developers agree to these terms and we have reminded Parler of this clear policy in recent months. We're aware of continued posting in the Parler app that seeks to incite ongoing violence in the U.S. We recognize that there can be reasonable debate about content policies and that it can be difficult for apps to immediately remove all violative content, but for us to distribute an app through Google Play, we do require that apps implement robust moderation for egregious content. In light of this ongoing and urgent public safety threat, we are suspending the app's listings from the Play Store until it addresses these issues."The news follows Twitter's permanent suspension of Trump's Twitter account, which had 88 million followers, over what it said was the president's incitement of violence linked to the storming of the Capitol Building, which lead to five deaths. Trump later condemned the violence. Trump has also been banned from Facebook and Instagram.Gab, a similar social network to Parler known for its far-right userbase and a frequent host of hate speech, appears to be benefiting from the fallout. On Monday, Gab CEO Andrew Torba announced that the platform had gained 600,000 new users.— Additional reporting by CNBC's Annie Palmer and Natasha Turak.

2020/12/20, Peter Endig | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon has closed a warehouse in New Jersey until Dec. 26 after it saw an uptick in asymptomatic coronavirus cases.Employees at the Robbinsville Township, New Jersey, facility, known as PNE5, were informed Saturday that the site would temporarily close, according to a notice obtained by CNBC.Amazon employees will be paid for any shifts that they'll miss while the facility is shuttered, Amazon spokesperson Lisa Levandowski told CNBC in a statement."Through our in-house COVID-19 testing program, we detected an increase in the number of asymptomatic positive cases at our PNE5 facility in New Jersey and have proactively closed the site until December 26th out of an abundance of caution," Levandowski said. "This is exactly why we built the program — to identify asymptomatic cases and ensure that we can take swift action to prevent spread."Levandowski didn't immediately respond to questions about the total number of cases at PNE5 or whether the building will undergo additional cleaning while it's closed.Amazon in October disclosed that nearly 20,000 front-line employees contracted Covid-19 between March 1 and Sept. 19. At the time, the company said the rate of infection among employees was 42% lower than expected, when compared with the general population rate in the U.S.Amazon has previously shuttered other facilities for brief stretches of time after it logged new coronavirus cases. In March, Amazon temporarily closed a delivery station in Queens, New York after a worker tested positive for the coronavirus. That month, it also closed a facility in Shepherdsville, Kentucky, after several workers there tested positive.Most of Amazon's warehouses have remained open during the pandemic, as they were deemed essential facilities, alongside grocery stores, pharmacies and banks, among other businesses.The company has previously said it's gone to "great lengths" to keep facilities clean and make sure employees are following necessary safety precautions, such as wearing a mask, using hand sanitizer, practicing social distancing and other measures. Amazon has also launched testing sites at a significant portion of its warehouses and in October said it was conducting thousands of tests a day.Still, warehouse and delivery workers across the U.S. have called on Amazon to do more to protect front-line employees, including reinstating temporary pay increases and providing paid sick leave.Amazon is among several companies vying for their workers to get priority access to the coronavirus vaccine. Last week, Dave Clark, who runs Amazon's retail operations, wrote to a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention panel asking that warehouse employees, Whole Foods workers and data center employees "receive the Covid-19 vaccine at the earliest appropriate time."On Sunday, the CDC panel voted that people 75 and older and front-line essential workers should be next in line for the coronavirus vaccine. Firefighters, police officers, teachers, grocery workers, public transit and postal workers are among the essential workers included in the tier, known as phase 1b. Other essential workers are expected to be included in the third wave of recipients.Correction: Robbinsville Township is located in central New Jersey. An earlier version of this article misstated its region in the state.VIDEO2:5202:52Amazon working to make its telehealth business available to other employers: ReportsThe Exchange

2020/11/27, An Amazon.com Inc worker prepares an order in which the buyer asked for an item to be gift wrapped at a fulfillment center in Shakopee, Minnesota, U.S., November 12, 2020.Amazon.com Inc | ReutersBlack Friday is set to kick a holiday season unlike any other into high gear.The pressure is on for Amazon and other retailers to prove they can navigate above-average online orders tied to the pandemic combined with the holiday shopping rush. More consumers than ever are expected to do their gift buying online this year, which could mean that products fly off the virtual shelves faster and shipping capacity becomes scarce. Amazon is entering the holiday season in a much stronger position than it started off with at the beginning of the year. The early months of the coronavirus pandemic served as the biggest test yet on Amazon's warehouse and delivery capacity. It struggled to keep up with demand, which resulted in a rare disruption to its vaunted two-day delivery promise. Since then, Amazon has spent several months ramping up its fulfillment and logistics systems to make sure it has a smooth holiday season. The company has increased transportation capacity, staffed up its warehouses significantly and put more selection in its warehouses closer to customers. The company has been busy expanding its warehouse footprint to have more space to store goods. So far this year, the company has opened more than 75 new fulfillment centers, sort centers, regional air hubs and delivery stations in the U.S. and Canada.Amazon said it would hire 100,000 seasonal employees to help manage holiday demand this year. It hired 200,000 temporary workers during last year's holiday season. But the company has already been on a hiring spree since the height of the coronavirus pandemic, bringing on 175,000 new operations jobs between March and April, then an additional 100,000 workers in September.It means that Amazon could be one of the few retailers to outlast what some are calling "shipageddon," or the capacity shortage expected to hit major shipping carriers this holiday season."Amazon is a well-oiled machine," said Andrea Leigh, vice president of strategy and insights at e-commerce advisory firm Ideoclick and a former Amazon executive. "They're not going to be the ones that are going to fall down this holiday."Even so, Amazon may still make some minor tweaks to help lighten the holiday load. Earlier this week, Amazon highlighted some of its alternative delivery options that allow holiday shoppers to retrieve their own packages from brick-and-mortar retail locations and neighborhood "hubs." The company also pointed to its "Amazon Day" service, which lets shoppers receive all of their Amazon orders on a single day, instead of throughout the week.Some interpreted the move as a way for Amazon to save some last-mile delivery capacity amid the holiday delivery rush, which Amazon denied. The company said the services are "about providing more choice for customers." Leigh said she's also noticed Amazon has made it more expensive for shoppers to make package returns via scheduled pickup. Currently, Amazon first suggests that shoppers drop off their returns at a Kohl's, an Amazon Locker or a UPS Store, which is free, in the returns window on its site.An Amazon spokesperson denied that the company is pushing shoppers to drop off their packages or increasing the cost of scheduled pickup. "This is not true," the spokesperson said. "Amazon offers customers a variety of free, easy, convenient ways to return an item from shipping it back to dropping it off — it's all about what's most convenient for the customer."  Amazon may also increase incentives for shoppers who choose "no-rush shipping" at checkout or subtly push shoppers to use it by making it the default shipping option at checkout, Leigh said. The company already added a banner to the checkout window advertising a $3 digital credit if consumers are willing to wait a few extra days for their package to arrive.A banner advertising "no-rush shipping" is shown at the top of Amazon's checkout windowThe Amazon spokesperson didn't answer specific questions around whether the no-rush shipping option benefits its logistics network or if Amazon Day reduces shipping costs. It's unclear whether consumers will actually select no-rush shipping at checkout, since even with a digital reward, "it's a pretty hard sell," said Juozas Kaziukenas, who runs e-commerce research firm Marketplace Pulse. "Amazon can't just push people into weeklong deliveries, because there's already plenty of people who complain about Prime and not getting things in two days," Kaziukenas said. "If they did it aggressively, that would only increase."If consumers aren't willing to wait a few extra days, Amazon can offload some of the demand to its third-party sellers — a strategy some merchants say the company has already deployed, according to Bloomberg.One third-party merchant, who asked to remain anonymous, told CNBC that they've seen an influx of orders on their merchant-fulfilled items. Sellers manage inventory and ship out orders on merchant-fulfilled items, rather than using Amazon's fulfillment services.An Amazon spokesperson denied that it's diverting orders outside its fulfillment network."Stringing together a few anecdotes doesn't mean something is broadly true," the spokesperson said. "We've invested heavily in our fulfillment and logistics capacity to provide fast delivery this holiday season, and have not changed how offers are presented to customers to shift volume from Amazon fulfilment to seller fulfilment."Amazon could also rely on some of the tools it used to meter demand during the pandemic as it heads into the final weeks and days of the holiday shopping season. Between March and May, Amazon made a series of tweaks to get shoppers to order less, including removing "Daily Deals" from the homepage, as well as stopping coupons and product recommendations. "It's not unlikely that we may see some version of that again later into Q4, because it's just a very effective way for them to manage sales on the site," Kaziukenas said. "It's almost like a dial they can turn." Real challenges may come later onFor Amazon, the true challenge may not materialize until mid-December. That's when major carriers UPS, FedEx and the Postal Service will start to enforce holiday shipping deadlines. After Dec. 15, carriers can no longer guarantee that ground-delivery orders will arrive before Christmas Day. The shipping cutoff could drive a surge of last-minute gift buyers to Amazon as it becomes one of the few sites that can ensure on-time delivery in the eleventh hour, thanks to its dedicated delivery army."Dec. 16 is going to be like Black Friday for Amazon," said James Thomson, a consultant for third-party sellers and former head of Amazon Services, in an interview. "It's going to be unlike anything that's ever been seen. Not only because it's right before Christmas and it's a big online year and Covid, but because everybody else is dependent on carriers that don't have the capacity to get the job done." Amazon still relies on the USPS, UPS and FedEx to deliver some packages. But its growing in-house logistics network, which spans trucks, planes, delivery vans and contracted delivery drivers, has stepped in to cover a growing share of deliveries. Deliveries through Amazon's logistics network account for more than 50% of its shipments, both in the U.S. and globally, Amazon said. The company's dedicated delivery fleet will come in handy like in previous holidays but especially this year, as many more consumers shop from their couch and don't feel safe running to the store for last-minute gifts. "Their ability to make a promise and say it will arrive by Tuesday, and sure enough it arrives by Tuesday — they're going to be able to do that much better than anyone else," Thomson said.VIDEO2:0002:00Malls prepare for a different kind of Black Friday amid the pandemicSquawk on the Street

2020/12/14, Halo app and bandSource: AmazonAmazon's health and fitness tracker is now available for anyone to purchase. The Halo band costs $99.99, provides access to the Halo app and comes with a six-month subscription to accompanying health services. Amazon launched the device in August, but it was only available to consumers on an invitation-only basis. The device competes with the likes of the Apple Watch and devices from Fitbit. Amazon designed the Halo to provide a comprehensive view of users' personal health and wellness by incorporating features that measure body fat percentage, activity levels, sleep and a tool that tracks how users sound to others by listening to the tone of their voice. Early reviews haven't been favorable. The Washington Post, for example, said recently that the "Halo collects the most intimate information we've seen from a consumer health gadget — and makes the absolute least of it."Amazon said it introduced improvements to the Halo based on feedback from invite-only users. Among them are a new feature called insights, which shows users trends or patterns based on their activity and sleep, as well as in their tone of voice, such as "peak periods of positivity and energy."It's also rolling out on-demand workouts from a range of popular fitness brands, such as Orangetheory Fitness, Aaptiv and Openfit. The Halo represents Amazon's first foray into the fitness wearables market. Its hardware business has traditionally been focused on in-home devices, like its lineup of Echo smart speakers and Fire TV streaming video devices. Amazon was widely anticipated to be preparing to enter the wearables market for many years. Wearables give the company another entry point to learn more about customers when they're not engaging with Amazon's website.VIDEO2:0402:04Amazon releases Halo, a health and fitness wearable that tracks body fat, sleep temperature and even emotionsNews Videos

2020/12/18, David Ricks, CEO, Eli LillyScott Mlyn | CNBC(This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Wall Street analysts said this week there's a wide range of companies that are well-positioned to prosper in 2021. Most of these stocks bucked the recession in 2020 and have the right characteristics to continue to grow in the new year, analysts say.CNBC Pro combed through recent Wall Street research this week to find some of the top growth stocks for 2021.

2020/12/15, Amazon made for youAmazonAmazon is launching a new service that lets users create custom shirts tailored to their size.The service, called Made for You, creates a custom T-shirt for shoppers based on their measurements. Shoppers can customize a T-shirt based on the type of fabric, color, length, fit, neckline and sleeve length. The custom T-shirt costs $25 and the service is available to anyone in the U.S.Users are required to provide Amazon with their height, weight, body style and two photos of themselves, which are taken using the Amazon app. From there, Amazon builds a "virtual body double" modeled after the user to create a custom fit and visualize what the clothing would look like on their body.Amazon says it automatically deletes any photos taken in the app after it creates a user's virtual body double. Users can delete their size information at any time.Over time, Amazon said it hopes to expand the service to include more styles based on users' feedback. Additionally, while customers can only choose from two body style options at launch — feminine and masculine — Amazon said it plans to add more options as it collects additional data.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAmazon made for youAmazonThe service adds to Amazon's growing ambitions in the fashion space. The company in September launched Luxury Stores for designer fashion brands and it offers a broad range of private-label fashion brands on its site. Both the Luxury Stores and Made for You service use 3D body modeling technology, which Amazon bet big on when it acquired 3D imaging start-up Body Labs in 2017.Amazon has also experimented with personalized shopping experiences in recent years, taking on the likes of wardrobe subscription service Stitch Fix. This includes Prime Wardrobe, a service that lets Prime members try on clothes before purchasing, and the recently discontinued Echo Look, a device that gave fashion recommendations.VIDEO2:5302:53One third of malls gone in 2020 with 25% more to close in the next 3-5 yearsThe News with Shepard Smith

2021/01/04, VIDEO1:1201:12JPM, Berkshire, Amazon to wind down joint health care ventureHalftime ReportHaven, the joint venture formed by three of America's most powerful companies to lower costs and improve outcomes in health care, is disbanding after three years, CNBC has learned exclusively.The company began informing employees Monday that it will shut down by the end of next month, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter.Many of the Boston-based firm's 57 workers are expected to be placed at Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway or JPMorgan Chase as the firms each individually push forward in their efforts, and the three companies are still expected to collaborate informally on health-care projects, the people said.The announcement three years ago that the CEOs of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase had teamed up to tackle one of the biggest problems facing corporate America – high and rising costs for employee health care  – sent shock waves throughout the world of medicine. Shares of health-care companies tumbled on fears about how the combined might of leaders in technology and finance could wring costs out of the system.VIDEO2:1902:19How insurance premiums and deductibles workInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.The move to shutter Haven may be a sign of how difficult it is to radically improve American health care, a complicated and entrenched system of doctors, insurers, drugmakers and middlemen that costs the country $3.5 trillion every year. Last year, Berkshire CEO Warren Buffett seemed to indicate as much, saying that were was no guarantee that Haven would succeed in improving health care.Shares of UnitedHealth Group, Humana and CVS Health each climbed more than 2% after the Haven news broke.One key issue facing Haven was that while the firm came up with ideas, each of the three founding companies executed their own projects separately with their own employees, obviating the need for the joint venture to begin with, according to the people, who declined to be identified speaking about the matter.Coming just three years after the initial rush of fanfare about the possibilities for what Haven could accomplish, its closure is a disappointment to some. But insiders claim that it will allow the founding companies to implement ideas from the project on their own, tailoring them to the specific needs of their employees, who are mostly concentrated in different cities.VIDEO3:1503:15Why health-care venture Haven is disbanding after three yearsThe ExchangeThe move comes after Haven's CEO, Dr. Atul Gawande, stepped down from day-to-day management of the nonprofit in May, a change that sparked a search for his successor.Brooke Thurston, a spokeswoman for Haven, confirmed the company's plans to close and gave this statement:"The Haven team made good progress exploring a wide range of healthcare solutions, as well as piloting new ways to make primary care easier to access, insurance benefits simpler to understand and easier to use, and prescription drugs more affordable," Thurston said in an email."Moving forward, Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will leverage these insights and continue to collaborate informally to design programs tailored to address the specific needs of our individual employee populations and locations," she said.VIDEO5:2405:24How much it costs to beat breast cancerInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.

2020/12/16, In this articleMTCHNFLXAMZNVIDEO5:0705:07Traders pick their favorite Nasdaq 100 stocks as index undergoes rebalancingTrading NationThe Nasdaq 100 is about to look a little different.In its annual rebalancing scheduled for the end of the week, the index will trade Monday with new components  Match, American Electric Power and Peloton among others and removes stocks such as Ulta, Citrix and Take-Two.Ahead of the shake-up, Mark Tepper, president of Strategic Wealth Partners, is adding to his position in two of the largest Nasdaq 100 stocks – Amazon and Netflix."Both of these stocks have been duds since the summertime, they traded sideways, they've been consolidating since like June. And in my opinion that gives us a good buying opportunity," Tepper told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Tuesday.Amazon, he said, is a buy when its investment spending is on the rise."Amazon tends to go through these heavy investment cycles. ... Whenever that happens investors get spooked and the multiple comes down, and then 12 to 18 months later, the investment stops, the profit spigot turns on and everyone gets blown away by the number," he said. "You buy it when they're investing heavily and when the stock is treading water."Tepper calls it "reasonable" for Amazon to hit $4,000 by the end of 2021. It closed Tuesday just above $3,165.Like Amazon, Tepper sees opportunity in Netflix, a stock that has pulled back in the last three months. He argues a strong content slate in 2021 should help propel the stock higher."They've got the secret sauce in the streaming game. They've got the perfect blend of quantity and quality. I think Netflix has more pricing power than Disney. I think it goes a lot higher from here," said Tepper.Todd Gordon, founder of TradingAnalysis.com, is backing Match as it prepares to enter the Nasdaq 100 at the end of the week. He said Match has done for online dating what Zoom did for videoconferencing in the work-from-home, stay-at-home environment.While Gordon said the fundamentals remain strong, he sees a band of resistance ahead after the stock rallied 35% in three months."Resistance does come in at about $165. [Its relative strength] has not quite reached the old highs of an 88 reading so a little bit more room to go. I hold the stock. I'll be cautious at this level around $165," he said during the same "Trading Nation" segment.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsMatch closed Tuesday at $150.84 a share.Amazon, Netflix and Match were all higher Wednesday.Disclosure: Strategic Wealth Partners holds AMZN and NFLX. Gordon holds MTCH.Disclaimer

2020/12/19, In this articleUPSFDXAMZNOnline shopping is in the midst of its biggest season ever, with Amazon reporting third-party sales of $4.8 billion in the days after Thanksgiving, up 60% from last year. Now, hackers are sending out fake shipping notification links to capitalize on the surge.The fraudulent delivery messages appear to come from Amazon, FedEx, UPS and other major shippers, but they launch malware or mine for personal information. Cybersecurity firm Check Point Software Technologies found these messages impersonating shippers were up 440% from October to November, and 72% since November last year.Long Beach realtor Tom Hoehn was expecting a package from UPS when he got one of these emails."It looked like it was from UPS and it said we were unable to deliver your package. However, if you click on the following link you can look up the tracking information on that package and then you can reroute it back to your place. At that point, I clicked on the link and my screen started flashing," Hoehn said."The message said, 'You have been hacked. We have encrypted all of your files. Send, I think it was like 150 bitcoins to this address."A fake shipping link can launch ransomware like it did for Hoehn, or it can redirect to a counterfeit branded page that asks for credit card or personal information to reroute a package, or tricks you into entering your username and password.When Hoehn chose not to pay the ransom of some 150 bitcoins, the equivalent of more than $66,000 at the time, he lost everything on the computer including his family pictures and business contacts. Months later, the IRS informed him his identity had been stolen. Then his email was hacked, with phishing emails sent to thousands of his contacts."We have our mind on other things like pandemic and our kids getting remotely educated," said Brian Linder, a threat prevention manager at Check Point. "And it's a perfect time for these bad actors to prey on consumers that are not paying close attention."Check Point found that 65% of fake shipping messages in the U.S. impersonate Amazon."They're successful because most of us are doing business with Amazon. We're ordering on Amazon. And for us to get an email from Amazon about a package we ordered would be perfectly normal and expected," Linder said.Amazon told CNBC it works with the Federal Trade Commission or Better Business Bureau to go after scammers and said in a statement, "Any customer that receives a questionable email, call or text from a person impersonating an Amazon employee should report them to Amazon customer service. Amazon investigates these complaints and will take action, if warranted."The phishing messages also commonly impersonate UPS, FedEx and DHL, which all have their own dedicated reporting emails. The companies that make our devices are also on guard. Microsoft, for example, has a Digital Crimes Unit that works with law enforcement and claims to have "rescued" more than 500 million devices from cyber criminals since 2010. Apple, meanwhile, offers public recognition and even bounties of up to a million dollars to users who report security issues.Some big warning signs to watch out for include slight misspellings or incorrect logos, unencrypted landing sites, and messages with a countdown urging consumers to act quickly.The best protection, experts say, is to prevent the scam messages from reaching your device in the first place. Operating systems have built in security protections, which is one reason software updates are crucial. Apps like Nomorobo offer additional blocking features, and users can help by changing passwords often, turning on two-factor authentication and using a variety of different email accounts and passwords for different online activities.Investigations into phishing attacks are usually conducted by the Federal Trade Commission."It's really important that we empower and adequately fund the agencies that go after these scammers. Number one, the Federal Trade Commission, they have a huge responsibility to police unfair and deceptive practices across the entire economy and yet their workforce and their funding is only a fraction of what it was in the 1970s," said John Breyault, vice president of public Policy, telecommunications, and fraud at the National Consumers League.As enforcement struggles to keep up, scammers are constantly finding ways to exploit the next trend."Consumers should really expect to start seeing messages on social media, emails, phone calls, text messages offering to get you to the front of the line for the vaccine if you'll pay some money up front. That is a big worry for us."If you do fall victim to one of these scams - or even just come across one - report it directly to the Federal Trade Commission or through the Better Business Bureau's Scam Tracker tool. You can inform mobile carriers of a spam text by forwarding it directly to SPAM.Watch the video to learn more about the impact delivery fraud has on victims and how to stop it.

2020/12/16, A Project Kuiper engineer sets up a a prototype antenna for a test.AmazonAmazon passed a critical early milestone in developing the hardware needed for its planned Project Kuiper satellite internet network, the company announced on Wednesday.Jeff Bezos' e-commerce and technology giant said its Kuiper team completed initial development of the antenna that will be housed in its "low-cost customer terminal," which will connect users to Amazon's network. Project Kuiper represents Amazon's plan to launch 3,236 internet satellites into low Earth orbit — a system that would compete with SpaceX's Starlink network.Amazon said it has been field testing the Kuiper antenna "in multiple environments," including "streaming 4K-quality video from a geostationary (GEO) satellite." Geostationary satellites are typically in orbit about 35,000 kilometers from Earth, which Amazon noted is "approximately 50 times farther" than the planned orbit for Kuiper's satellites at about 600 kilometers."Our prototype is already delivering speeds up to 400 Mbps, and performance will continue to improve in future iterations," the company wrote in a blog post.A diagram of Project Kuiper's antenna for its customer terminals.AmazonThe company did not disclose the full design for the customer terminal. The FCC in July authorized Amazon's proposal for Kuiper, which the company says it will invest more than $10 billion in to build.Amazon's network would begin offering service once 578 satellites are in orbit, although Project Kuiper has yet to finish its satellites' design and begin launching. SpaceX to date has launched about 900 Starlink satellites — a fraction of the total needed for global coverage but enough to begin providing service in some areas, including in the northwest United States. In October SpaceX began a public beta test of Starlink, with service priced at $99 a month.VIDEO17:4017:40Behind SpaceX and Amazon plans launch thousands of satellitesTechSubscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/11/18, Andy Jassy, CEO of Amazon Web Services, speaks at the 2019 CERAWeek by IHS Markit conference in Houston, Texas, on March 11, 2019.Aaron M. Sprecher | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesEvery day, Amazon Web Services, which companies count on to remotely store data and run applications, produces millions of dollars in operating income for Amazon. As the segment's revenue grows, so do its operating income and Amazon's overall net income, generally. In other words, it's important for AWS revenue to keep increasing.In the third quarter, as the coronavirus raged on, the annualized AWS revenue growth rate came in at 29%, which was unchanged from the second quarter. In the same period Amazon's top cloud competitors, Alibaba, Google and Microsoft, all increased revenue growth sequentially by about 1 percentage point.Amazon's cloud is larger than any other cloud, with a 45% share of the market in 2019, according to technology industry research company Gartner. It's more mature than other clouds, and so revenue growth will be slower. Still, AWS did not see the gain that its peers did, at a time when many companies have adopted cloud infrastructure to keep employees working while offices stay closed to reduce spread of the virus.That's not necessarily a major problem for Amazon investors. 

2020/12/16, Amazon.com urged a U.S. judge to toss out the Pentagon's $10 billion JEDI cloud computing contract award after the Defense Department said in September a court-ordered re-evaluation had determined Microsoft's proposal still represented the best value for the government.The company's Amazon Web Services (AWS) unit said in a redacted Oct. 23 court filing unsealed on Tuesday that the award to Microsoft must "be invalidated because it is the product of systematic bias, bad faith, and undue influence exerted by President Donald Trump to steer the award away from" the company. It called it a "flawed and politically corrupted decision."The White House declined to comment, referring questions to the Justice Department. The Pentagon did not immediately comment.Microsoft said in a statement Tuesday "career procurement officials at the DoD decided that given the superior technical advantages and overall value, we continued to offer the best solution."It added, "it is time we moved on and got this technology in the hands of those who urgently need it: the women and men who protect our nation."AWS said in a statement Tuesday that as a result of the Pentagon revision in September "the pricing differential swung substantially, with AWS now the lowest-priced bid by tens of millions of dollars."A judge in February granted Amazon's request to temporarily halt the deal from moving forward; that remains in place.The court is considering motions to dismiss Amazon's amended complaint that have been filed by the government and Microsoft. The motions have not been made public and it is not clear when the judge might rule.Amazon, which had been seen as a front-runner to win the contract, filed a lawsuit in November 2019 after the contract was awarded to Microsoft. Trump has publicly derided Amazon head Jeff Bezos and repeatedly criticized the company.Amazon's new filing said Trump and his administration "intensified a campaign of interference and retribution against those in DoD perceived as disloyal to the president or capable of reaching conclusions at odds with his personal interests."The company argued the latest Pentagon review was "riddled with errors even more egregious than those that plagued the initial award," and that the Pentagon "manipulated its evaluations to a degree that belies any facade of rationality."The Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure Cloud (JEDI) contract could reach as much as $10 billion and is part of a broader digital modernization of the Pentagon.Then-Defense Secretary Mark Esper said the Pentagon made its choice fairly. Trump fired Esper last month.

2020/11/11, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos on October 02, 2019.Elif Ozturk | Anadolu Agency | Getty ImagesAmazon is facing renewed pressure to answer questions about its use of third-party seller data after European Union regulators brought antitrust charges against the company. Europe's top antitrust watchdog, the European Commission, accused Amazon on Tuesday of violating competition law by using nonpublic data it gathers from third-party merchants to unfairly compete against the smaller sellers. It also opened a second investigation into Amazon's business practices related to the Prime label and the "Buy Box," which offers customers a one-click button to add a product to their shopping cart.Amazon rejected the European Commission's accusations and said it supports thousands of businesses in Europe. If the European Commission finds that Amazon violated antitrust rules, the probe could provide new material to strengthen similar cases against Amazon in the U.S.Congress and the Federal Trade Commission are also investigating Amazon's treatment of third-party sellers. It's unclear what the scope of the FTC's investigation is, but the agency has been interviewing third-party sellers as part of the probe, Bloomberg reported in September. After a 16-month probe, the House Judiciary antitrust subcommittee said last month that Amazon has monopoly power over third-party sellers.Both investigations are in different stages. After publishing a sweeping report on the competitive practices of Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook, U.S. lawmakers are expected to introduce legislation based on their policy recommendations.The EU hasn't filed legal charges against Amazon, so it could be years before it announces any penalties. It could also reach a settlement with Amazon or drop the case altogether.Shared concerns Regulators in Europe and the U.S. have objected to Amazon's dual role as a marketplace operator and seller, arguing that this may foster anti-competitive conduct. They have pointed out that Amazon's role as a marketplace service provider gives it privileged access to nonpublic third-party seller data, such as order volume history, shipping data and sellers' past performance, that isn't available to merchants. EU officials and Democrats in the House antitrust subcommittee share the view that this data from third-party sellers is used to inform Amazon's first-party business decisions, such as what products to introduce and where to set the price. The insight "allows Amazon to focus its offers in the best-selling products across product categories and to adjust its offers in view of non-public data of competing sellers," the EU said in a statement on Tuesday.Similarly, the antitrust subcommittee's investigation included testimony from third-party sellers who said their businesses were damaged when Amazon launched competing products. For example, one retired third-party merchant was forced to exit his seller business after Amazon allegedly copied his products, "down to the color palette," undercut him on price and "took over the Buy Box for his listings, 'killing his sales,'" the antitrust subcommittee said, citing an interview with the seller.Amazon has long maintained that it doesn't look at individual sellers' data to build private-label products because doing so would violate internal policies. The company has acknowledged, however, that it may refer to aggregate data in the process of building its own products. Amazon has also rebutted regulators' claims that it exploits its control over the Buy Box to give preferential treatment to its own products and those featured by sellers who use its logistics and delivery service, called Fulfillment By Amazon. The Buy Box refers to a section off to the side of a product page where sellers compete for their offers to be featured. Amazon has maintained that the Buy Box shows the offer it thinks customers will prefer, while factoring in things like price and delivery speed. At a July hearing in Congress, CEO Jeff Bezos acknowledged the Buy Box algorithm "indirectly" favors offers that can be shipped with Prime when determining which sellers are featured.The House antitrust subcommittee probe and the EU investigation raised questions about third-party sellers' ability to reach Prime users.In the October report, U.S. lawmakers said they spoke to third-party sellers who feel they have "no choice" but to pay for Fulfillment by Amazon, which makes their products Prime eligible, in order to "maintain a favorable search result position, to reach Amazon's more than 112 million Prime members, and to win the Buy Box." Winning the Buy Box is crucial for third-party sellers products to be successful. The antitrust subcommittee estimated that roughly 80% of Amazon sales go through the Buy Box and "the percentage is even higher for mobile purchases."Prime members are also an important source of revenue for third-party sellers because they tend to generate more sales on Amazon's marketplace than non-Prime users, the European Commission said. Prime members don't just spend more money per purchase, but they also tend to shop on the site more frequently. With the EU and the U.S. questioning Amazon's market power over sellers, it's now up to Amazon to provide proof that it treats merchants fairly.The company flatly disputed the House antitrust subcommittee's findings, calling them "fringe notions." Amazon can reply to the commission's conclusions in writing or via an oral hearing."The ball is in Amazon's court to disprove these allegations," said Shaoul Sussman, a legal fellow with the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, a nonprofit.What's nextThe EU and U.S. identified similar issues with Amazon's treatment of sellers, but the potential penalties and remedies they could settle on are likely to be different.Democratic staffers in the House Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust recommended a wide range of remedies, including forcing companies to prove mergers would not harm competition and splitting different business units. For Amazon, this could result in it spinning off the third-party marketplace from its core retail operations.As for the FTC probe, Amazon could be hit with fines or the company could reach a settlement with the agency in which it agrees to certain business restrictions.Similarly, the EU has a range of penalties it could propose, including a fine of up to 10% of Amazon's annual global revenue, or up to $28 billion based on 2019 figures.The EU could also propose behavioral remedies, which attempt to preserve competition by requiring the companies to refrain from certain business conduct. But behavioral remedies can be "hit or miss" in terms of effectiveness, since some companies may find it "more profitable to violate the remedy and just pay the fines if they're found in violation again," Sussman said.The most aggressive tool in the EU's arsenal would be to recommend a line of business separation, Sussman said. For Amazon, this might mean that the EU orders it to stop selling its private-label brands in Europe."That type of decision won't affect the U.S. or any other market where Amazon sells those goods, but they could say, if you're transacting in Europe, you're not allowed to be a brand owner or manufacturer and operator of the platform," Sussman said.Sussman and other antitrust experts said they remain skeptical of whether the U.S. will be successful in bringing a case against Amazon and even if antitrust officials do, the remedies are likely to be limited. By contrast, European regulators have stepped up their efforts to crack down on Big Tech companies like Facebook, Google and Apple in recent years, earning them the reputation of being more aggressive.The U.S. and Europe have different approaches when evaluating whether a company is engaging in anti-competitive conduct.U.S. antitrust law is centered on the consumer welfare standard, which relies heavily on increased prices as an indication of harm. That standard has been hard to apply to tech companies because many of the products and services offered are free, or low cost, in the case of Amazon.In the U.S., a company like Amazon can argue that whatever harm it's causing competitors is offset by any benefits to consumers, i.e. lower prices and greater selection, Sussman said.That argument is harder to prove to European antitrust enforcers. The EU takes a wider view when determining whether a company's business practices are anti-competitive, including harm to consumer choice, potential competitors and innovation.As a result, it can be easier to bring an antitrust case in the EU than it is in the U.S., said New York University law professor Eleanor Fox. This is part of the reason why the U.S. is trying to catch up with EU regulators, Fox said, which have carried out a crackdown on U.S. tech giants including Google, Facebook and Apple."That difference is what we're struggling with and it's why the U.S. has been so slow to make any claims at all," Fox said.VIDEO5:2605:26Jim Cramer: Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Microsoft are the 'Fort Knoxes of our eraMad Money with Jim Cramer

2020/11/17, In this articleAMZNVIDEO4:0404:04Jim Cramer on how Amazon Pharmacy will shake up the industrySquawk on the StreetAmazon is entering the pharmacy business with a new offering called Amazon Pharmacy, allowing customers in the United States to order prescription medications for home delivery, including free delivery for Amazon Prime members.Amazon has been quietly building out its pharmacy offering for several years after ramping up internal discussions in 2017 and acquiring PillPack in 2018. The pharmacy space is notoriously complex and competitive in the U.S., and Amazon Pharmacy is built in part on PillPack's infrastructure, including its pharmacy software, fulfillment centers and relationships with health plans.Amazon Pharmacy, announced Tuesday, is the company's biggest push yet into $300 billion market, and threatens the dominance of traditional pharmacies like CVS and Walgreens, as well as other large retailers that offer pharmacy services, including Walmart.VIDEO2:3302:33Amazon launches online pharmacy in the United StatesSquawk BoxPharmacy stocks tumbled following the launch of Amazon Pharmacy. CVS shares fell 8.6% on Tuesday. Walgreens Boots Alliance dropped 9.6%. Shares of Rite Aid slid 16.2%. GoodRx, which helps consumers find discounts on prescription drugs, fell 22.5%. Amazon shares closed slightly higher.For Amazon, the announcement is well timed. Americans are increasingly relying on getting their medicines via mail to avoid possible exposure to the coronavirus. That shift could be permanent, as more people than ever before are learning about new ways of receiving medication."We wanted to make it easy for people to get their medication, understand the cost and get it delivered to the home," said TJ Parker, Amazon's vice president of pharmacy, who previously co-founded PillPack. "The hard work is to make it easy ... there were a number of complications behind the scenes.""We think this new benefit will add tremendous value to our members," added Jamil Ghani, vice president of Amazon Prime. "It's relevant as folks try to do more from the comfort and safety of their homes."How it worksCustomers over the age of 18 will have access to the pharmacy service this week in 45 states, not including Hawaii, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana and Minnesota. Amazon expects to serve those states over time.Amazon Pharmacy will accept most forms of insurance, but could offer savings for people without insurance as well. Customers can also use flexible spending accounts or health savings accounts to buy prescriptions on the service.Before customers order medication for the first time, the site might ask them questions such as whether they're pregnant, their date of birth and their gender as it was assigned at birth. That information is required by law to provide pharmacy care, and it helps pharmacists to do things like confirm prescriptions.Doctors can send prescriptions directly to Amazon Pharmacy, or patients can request a transfer from an existing retailer, like CVS or Walgreens. Amazon says it has tools to verify that a physician legitimately ordered each prescription, and to tamp down on potential fraud.Customers will be able to track the delivery of their prescriptions just like they can with any other Amazon order.AmazonAmazon Prime customers get free two-day delivery, although shipping might take up to five days the first time a customer orders, as it takes time to transfer a medication. Customers who don't have Prime can get free delivery within five days, or they can pay $5.99 to upgrade to two-day delivery.The medicines on offer include a mix of generic and brand-name drugs. Customers can get access to birth control, as well as commonly prescribed drugs like insulin, triamcinolone steroid creams, metformin for controlling blood sugar and sumatriptan for migraines.Amazon will not deliver Schedule II controlled medications, including most opioids, and it won't be replacing the Health & Personal Care store by offering vitamins and supplements.Customers who have questions about their medications can reach a pharmacist or pharmacy technician at any time through online self-service or phone. Amazon will also screen for potentially problematic drug interactions for customers who are taking multiple medications at once.Amazon's Parker said that the storage and collection of customer health information is in compliance with federal HIPAA rules, and the company won't share pharmacy data with advertisers or marketers without permission.Amazon has leveraged its rich troves of customer data to build advertising into a key pillar of its overall business, and shows customers personalized ads and offers discounts based on what they have bought in the past. But consumers are likely to have a different set of expectations when they're placing a prescription order versus browsing for a new pair of pants."The information and experience you have inside the pharmacy is separate and distinct from the experience that you have on Amazon.com," Parker said.PillPack will continue to serve customers even after Amazon Pharmacy launches. That's because PillPack is designed for a different use-case: It delivers medicines on a 30-day schedule to a population of patients that tend to be sicker and older than average, and often require multiple prescriptions.For Prime users: A prescription savings benefitAmazon Prime members have access to an additional pharmacy perk called the "prescription savings benefit," which offers a discount of up to 80% on generic medications and up to 40% on brand-name prescriptions.Amazon negotiated those discounts through a relationship with the Inside Rx savings program, which is part of Evernorth, a company that grew out of a merger between Express Scripts and insurance giant Cigna in 2018. Insurers use pharmacy benefits managers like Evernorth to negotiate drug rebates from drug manufacturers in exchange for better coverage.Even for people who have health coverage, the Prime price might still end up being more affordable than the co-pay.AmazonEven for people who have health coverage, the Prime price might still end up being more affordable than the copay -- Amazon's Parker said it happens "more frequently than people think" (although it won't count toward a deductible).Prime customers can also get a prescription savings benefit card to use at up to 50,000 pharmacies, including CVS, Walmart, Rite Aid and Walgreens. This might be preferable for customers who have an urgent need for medication and can't wait two days for delivery.Amazon's Parker said the company does not currently have any brick-and-mortar pharmacies, and declined to speculate on its plans. But in future, the company could add pharmacies to Whole Foods and its chain of Amazon Fresh stores.Correction: This story has been updated to correct the spelling of the Inside Rx savings program.

2020/12/02, In this articleAMZNWMTA Walmart package is unloaded from a trailer to be sorted at a FedEx ground hub in Hagerstown, Maryland.Andrew Harrer | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesWalmart said it will drop its online shipping minimum for customers who belong to its membership program, Walmart+.Starting Friday, Walmart+ members will get free next-day and two-day shipping — even if they have just one item from the company's website in their basket. Walmart typically requires customers to spend $35 or more to get free shipping."Customers have been clear — they want this benefit," Walmart Chief Customer Officer Janey Whiteside said in a news release. "Being able to toss an item into your cart, regardless the total, and check out right away lets them knock little things off their to-do list in no time."The big-box giant is eliminating the minimum as it tries to persuade more customers to sign up for Walmart+ and aims to better compete with rival membership program, Amazon Prime. Walmart+ and Amazon Prime have different prices and perks. One of Amazon's popular features is its free and fast deliveries, even for items as cheap as a toothbrush or a lightbulb.VIDEO17:0017:00What it would take for Walmart to catch Amazon in e-commerceTechWalmart's announcement comes as online shopping has gained importance amid the global pandemic and during the busy holiday shopping season. Many consumers are buying gifts, decorations, baking ingredients and more on websites to limit trips to the store.Walmart has tried to best Amazon on price and speed, too. It has used its footprint of more than 4,700 stores to help expedite the fulfillment of orders. More than 90% of Americans live within 10 miles of one of the company's stores.Walmart+ launched in September, but the retailer hasn't shared how many customers have joined. On an earnings conference call in November, Walmart executives repeatedly dodged questions from analysts about the number of sign-ups. When asked by CNBC, the company declined to comment.In a mid-November research note, BMO Capital Markets estimated that as many as 19 million households may have signed up for Walmart+. The projection is based on a survey of about 1,000 U.S. shoppers that found 16% had already joined.Amazon Prime had approximately 126 million U.S. subscribers as of October, according to an estimate from Consumer Intelligence Research Partners. The company said in late January that it had more than 150 million paid Prime members across the globe — before the pandemic-related e-commerce surge.Walmart previously said it planned to keep adding perks to Walmart+ to make it more appealing. During the November earnings call, CEO Doug McMillon said the service is a way to deepen customer loyalty and build upon its e-commerce growth during the pandemic. U.S. e-commerce sales soared by 79% in Walmart's third quarter ended Oct. 31.Online sales growth has slowed as the pandemic has stretched on, prompting some investors to express skepticism that stay-at-home trends, such as the boom in online grocery shopping, will continue at the same levels after distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine. That has inspired retailers, including Walmart, to look for other sales drivers.Walmart+ costs $98 a year or $12.95 a month compared with Amazon Prime, which costs $119 a year or $12.99 a month. It includes discounts of as much as 5 cents per gallon on fuel and access to a Scan & Go app that allows shoppers to skip the checkout line. Customers can also get free unlimited grocery deliveries to their home for orders of $35 or more.Along with Amazon's quick and fee-free deliveries, its members get access to a large library of movie and TV content — including hit originals like "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel." Prime members can also get free grocery delivery for orders of $35 or more and get discounts at Amazon-owned Whole Foods.—CNBC's Annie Palmer contributed to this story.VIDEO2:4202:42Here's why Walmart+ membership program is being compared to AmazonSquawk on the Street

2020/11/23, An Amazon worker delivers packages amid the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak in Denver, Colorado, April 22, 2020.Kevin Mohatt | ReutersAmazon is pushing holiday shoppers to retrieve their own packages from brick-and-mortar retail locations and neighborhood "hubs," as it braces for a surge in online orders.The company said in a statement Monday that Amazon shoppers nationwide can now get their gifts delivered to one of its physical bookstores, called Amazon Books, or an Amazon 4-star location.Amazon also highlighted its network of contactless pickup points, referred to as Amazon Hub, as an "alternative delivery location" for holiday orders. Hub locations are self-service kiosks and manned pickup counters, located inside or near local shops, as well as in residential apartment buildings.Amazon said it was offering shoppers new ways to pick up their packages as a means of keeping their holiday season "spoiler free.""This year many customers and their families are opting to stay home so the challenge of keeping those special gifts under wraps from family, friends or loved ones is going to be greater than ever," John Felton, vice president of Amazon's global delivery services, said in a statement.But it could also benefit Amazon in other ways. By pushing shoppers to have their orders sent to Hubs and brick-and-mortar stores, Amazon can cut down on the number of last-mile delivery trips that are necessary. The last mile is an especially labor-intensive and expensive step in the delivery process.To that end, Amazon also pointed shoppers to its "Amazon Day" delivery option, which allows them to pick a day of the week to receive all of their orders, cutting down on the number of boxes and deliveries. It reduces the number of trips Amazon has to make to a single address.Amazon will likely need all the help it can get when it comes to deliveries this holiday season. For months, large shippers such as FedEx and UPS have been warning of a potential capacity shortfall, as the pandemic-induced surge of online shopping, coupled with the holiday peak, leaves them struggling to keep up.Online sales this holiday season are expected to spike 33% year over year to a record $189 billion, according to Adobe Analytics.An Amazon spokesperson told CNBC in a statement that alternative delivery options don't impact network capacity. "It's about providing more choice for customers," they added.Amazon said it has increased transportation capacity, staffed up its warehouses significantly and put more selection in fulfillment centers closer to customers."We deliver for our customers every day and we'll continue to do so this holiday season," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement.Amazon is also managing tight capacity inside its warehouses after experiencing months of peak online ordering activity due to the pandemic. The company encouraged consumers to start their holiday shopping early in anticipation of the delivery crunch. Amazon kicked off its holiday deal season in late October, a month earlier than usual, following a delayed Prime Day.Other retailers have followed suit. Walmart and Home Depot nixed one-day store events in favor of rolling out deals over several days.VIDEO6:2006:20Here's how the pandemic has shifted demand for retailersSquawk on the Street

2020/11/12, In this articleAMZNAmazon on Thursday filed a lawsuit against two influencers and nearly a dozen merchants for allegedly marketing and selling counterfeit goods like the knockoff Gucci belt pictured above.Two influencers allegedly teamed up with nearly a dozen third-party sellers to advertise, promote and facilitate the sale of counterfeit luxury goods on Amazon, according to a lawsuit the company filed Thursday.Amazon accused Kelly Fitzpatrick and Sabrina Kelly-Krejci of using Instagram, Facebook and TikTok accounts, as well as their personal websites, to promote counterfeit products being sold on Amazon. The suit, which was filed in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington, also names 11 individuals and businesses based in the U.S. and China that allegedly listed the counterfeit products on Amazon.Fitzpatrick and Kelly-Krejci declined to comment on the lawsuit. Amazon's marketplace, launched in 2000, now accounts for more than half the company's overall sales. While it remains a critical component of Amazon's business, the marketplace has also faced a number of issues related to the sale of counterfeit, unsafe and expired goods. Fake products can be particularly harmful to credible brands that sell on Amazon because they siphon away business and can force businesses that already survive on low margins to further lower their prices to compete.The company has pursued counterfeiters in court, rolled out various programs to seek and detect sales of counterfeit goods, and in June launched the Counterfeit Crimes Unit, made up of former federal prosecutors, investigators and data analysts, to mine the site for fraudulent activity. How the scheme workedThis complaint alleges the defendants orchestrated a sophisticated scheme to deceive Amazon's counterfeit-detection systems. Beginning last November, the sellers and influencers fueled purchases of knockoff purses, bags, belts and wallets, which were falsely branded as luxury goods from the likes of Gucci and Dior, the suit claims.Fitzpatrick was previously a member of the Amazon Associates program, which allows members to advertise and link to Amazon products in exchange for a percentage of the sales. Amazon removed Fitzpatrick from the program after it discovered she was advertising counterfeits, the company says.Fitzpatrick and Kelly-Krejci continued to promote the Amazon listings on their social media accounts and websites via photos and videos, then directed consumers to purchase them using a "hidden link." The "hidden link" referred to an Amazon listing, run by a seller in on the scheme, for a non-infringing, generic item.Here's what an Instagram post from the influencers looked like:The influencers would post side-by-side photos of the generic, non-infringing product and the counterfeit product on their Instagram Stories.And this is what an Amazon listing would show:The influencers would link to an Amazon listing for a generic product that appeared harmless to the company's counterfeit detection tools.After placing the order, sellers would ship out the counterfeit product instead of the generic item, Amazon says. On her website, called "Stylee and Grace," Fitzpatrick described how they were disguising counterfeits as non-infringing products in an attempt to skirt past Amazon's anti-counterfeit tools, the lawsuit says."As Fitzpatrick explains to her followers, a 'hidden link' means 'you order a certain product that looks nothing like the designer dupe in order to hide the item from getting taken [by Amazon] and orders being cancelled,'" according to the complaint, which quotes from a post on Fitzpatrick's website.Amazon confirmed the products were fakes by purchasing a series of them, then shut the offending accounts down.An example of one of Fitzpatrick's Instagram posts allegedly advertising a counterfeit Dior bag.As of Wednesday evening, Fitzpatrick and Kelly-Krejci were still sharing "hidden links" to Amazon products via newly created Instagram accounts, despite previously instructing their followers to purchase counterfeits on other e-commerce websites, including Etsy and DH Gate, a Chinese wholesale marketplace.Dharmesh Mehta, Amazon's vice president of customer trust and partner support, said in an interview that the case stood out to him due to the alleged counterfeiters' brazenness on social media platforms."Every piece of data that you'd look at Amazon, or that we had, might have looked fine," Mehta said. "But the smoking gun here was sometimes lying in plain sight on a set of social media sites."Mehta said the case illustrates the need for collaboration between online platforms, which could simplify and expedite the process of catching fraudsters."Certainly with the social media sites, we've had efforts where as we detect abuse that we think is happening on their sites, we report this to them," Mehta said. "I think this is going to require continued investment from those parties as well, because I would expect any of these critical social media sites would not want a set of crime being perpetrated or organized or advertised through their platforms."Amazon declined to answer questions about how the influencers connected with the third-party sellers. Cristina Posa, associate general counsel and director of Amazon's Counterfeit Crimes Unit, said the investigation is still ongoing.The company is seeking unspecified damages from Fitzpatrick and Kelly-Krejci, as well as an injunction against the influencers and sellers that would bar them from selling or promoting any products sold on Amazon.Counterfeits aren't just a problem on Amazon's marketplace. CNBC previously reported that dupe and designer lookalike videos are flourishing on TikTok, as teens look to wear items that appear similar to Gucci or Lululemon, but may not want to pay full price for those products.VIDEO1:4101:41Amazon CFO says holiday shopping capacity will be tight industry-wideClosing Bell

2020/12/01, In this articleAMZNAn Amazon fulfillment center in Frankenthal, Germany.Thorsten Wagner | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon said Tuesday that this year's holiday shopping season has been the biggest in its history, as the coronavirus pandemic forced more people than ever to do their shopping online.The e-commerce giant said in a blog post that customers have been shopping early for gifts and seasonal items for their loved ones. While Amazon has been piling up sales, many retailers reliant on physical stores have been struggling to survive.Amazon said popular purchases include the new Echo Dot, former President Barack Obama's book "A Promised Land," and the Revlon One-Step Hair Dryer and Volumizer Brush. Self-care, "nesting at home" and "cozy comfort" were among the most popular trends during the period."In a holiday season unlike any other, it's clear that customers still want great deals on gifts for their loved ones or a little something extra for themselves, and we're glad to help deliver smiles throughout the season," said Jeff Wilke, CEO of Amazon Worldwide Consumer."Thank you to our customers, employees, and selling partners around the world for making this our biggest holiday season to date, and for everything you're doing to support our communities and each other now and throughout the year."The company didn't disclose actual sales figures for Black Friday or Cyber Monday, which are typically its busiest days in the holiday shopping period.Amazon has been criticized for promoting its own products above those from independent retailers, but the company said the latter had seen "record demand" on its platform this year.Independent businesses selling on Amazon surpassed $4.8 billion in worldwide sales from Black Friday through Cyber Monday, Amazon said, noting that the figure was up 60% from last year. It added that 71,000 small and medium-sized businesses had seen sales above $100,000 in this holiday season.Like many other retailers, Amazon began offering holiday deals earlier than ever this year. Prime Day, which was pushed back from mid-July to October, became the unofficial kickoff to the holiday shopping season.Consumers still opened up their wallets on Black Friday and Cyber Monday, despite the earlier start, and did more of their shopping online. Spending online on Black Friday this year climbed 22% year over year to a record $9 billion, according to Adobe Analytics. Cyber Monday, the busiest online shopping day of the year, is also expected to notch record sales.The flood of online shopping was bad news for many brick-and-mortar locations, as many customers remain cautious about making trips to crowded stores and malls. Foot traffic to stores on Black Friday dropped 52% compared with last year, according to data from Sensormatic Solutions.Amazon is one of the best-positioned retailers to benefit from the trend. The company has staffed up its warehouses significantly and expanded its warehouse footprint to store more goods, among other things, to make sure it's prepared for the holiday rush. Those investments could lead to it claiming 42 cents of every dollar spent during this holiday season, up from 36 cents last year, according to Wall Street firm Truist Securities.

2020/12/10, In this articleAMZNGetty Images; Chris Ratcliff | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesLONDON — France's data protection regulator, the Commission nationale de l'informatique et des libertés, issued Google and Amazon with substantial fines on Thursday for breaking rules on online advertising trackers, known as cookies.The watchdog ordered Google to pay 100 million euros ($121 million) and Amazon to pay 35 million euros.The CNIL said both companies had breached Article 82 of the French Data Protection Act, with Google committing three offences and Amazon committing two.The companies were fined for placing tracking cookies on their user's computers in France "without obtaining prior consent and without providing adequate information."Cookies allow tech giants to "follow" their users around the internet so that they can serve them with personalized ads.Google was also fined for tracking users who had specifically deactivated ad personalization.The CNIL said Amazon and Google had 90 days to change the information banners it shows users on cookies. If they fail to make the necessary changes, they will face an additional fine of 100,000 euros per day until the modifications are made.A Google spokesperson said: "People who use Google expect us to respect their privacy, whether they have a Google account or not. We stand by our record of providing upfront information and clear controls, strong internal data governance, secure infrastructure, and above all, helpful products."They added: "Today's decision under French ePrivacy laws overlooks these efforts and doesn't account for the fact that French rules and regulatory guidance are uncertain and constantly evolving. We will continue to engage with the CNIL as we make ongoing improvements to better understand its concerns."Amazon said it disagreed with the CNIL's decision. "Protecting the privacy of our customers has always been a top priority for Amazon," said an Amazon spokesperson. "We continuously update our privacy practices to ensure that we meet the evolving needs and expectations of customers and regulators and fully comply with all applicable laws in every country in which we operate."The fines on the U.S. tech giants are the latest in a string of punishments to be handed out by European regulators.Next week, the European Commission, the executive arm of the European Union, is set to announce a new Digital Services Act that will likely have major ramifications for the world's largest tech firms.In 2019, Google's revenues came in at $162 billion, while Amazon's came in at $280 billion.

2020/12/16, In this articleAMZNAn Amazon.com Inc worker prepares an order in which the buyer asked for an item to be gift wrapped at a fulfillment center in Shakopee, Minnesota, U.S., November 12, 2020.Amazon.com Inc | ReutersAmazon is pushing for front-line employees to get priority access to the Covid-19 vaccine.Dave Clark, Amazon's senior vice president of retail operations, on Wednesday sent a letter to a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention panel asking for warehouse workers, data center employees at Amazon Web Services and Whole Foods employees to "receive the Covid-19 vaccine at the earliest appropriate time."Clark emphasized that Amazon's front-line workers have played an essential role helping consumers get necessary products during the coronavirus pandemic, as local governments ordered people to stay indoors and retail stores to close. He added that Amazon employs more than 800,000 people in the U.S., making it the nation's second largest employer behind Walmart."We request that the ACIP continue to prioritize these essential workers who cannot work from home," Clark wrote, referring to the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, an outside group of medical experts that advises the CDC.Elsewhere in Silicon Valley, Uber and DoorDash have urged officials to prioritize their drivers when it comes to vaccine distribution. Companies in the retail, airline, restaurant and meatpacking industries have also lobbied for priority access.On Dec. 1, a CDC panel voted to give health-care workers and long-term care facility residents the first Covid-19 vaccine doses. The panel will soon vote on which groups should be prioritized in the second wave of recipients. Groups that are expected to be prioritized include vulnerable Americans, including people with underlying conditions, the elderly and essential workers.-- CNBC's Bertha Coombs contributed to this article.VIDEO2:5202:52Amazon working to make its telehealth business available to other employers: ReportsThe Exchange

2020/11/18, CNBC's Kelly EvansCNBCAmazon caused quite a stir yesterday by launching its own online pharmacy. Pharmacy stocks all suffered; Walgreens was the worst performer in the Dow and the S&P 500, down nearly 10%. CVS fell more than 8%. Drug distributors like Cardinal Health and McKesson were down more than 5%. And GoodRX, which only IPO'd a couple of weeks ago, plunged 22%. That's because Amazon isn't just launching a pharmacy, it's also launching a discount card that can be used at some 50,000 locations, including Walgreens and CVS. As Raymond James analyst John Ransom noted, "At the time of the [GoodRX] IPO, the narrative was that Amazon wouldn't be a near-term competitor because pharmacies would be reluctant to work with them. This clearly changes that narrative." Still, it's a "double negative" for the drug retailers, Ransom said, because it means (1) more people with discount cards, and (2) more mail order/online competition. It feels to me like the drugstores are hedging their bets; partnering with Amazon on the discount cards could increase foot traffic for now even as Amazon starts shifting more of the pharma business online longer-term. Now, some were brushing off the Amazon move yesterday by pointing to its 2017 acquisition of Whole Foods, which is close to being viewed as a flop. It's apparently been a tough year for Whole Foods, which relies on huge food bars that aren't viable in a pandemic. One research firm (Numerator) estimates they've lost 4.5 million households since March; foot traffic is reportedly down 25% year-on-year, according to Placer.ai. Grocery consultant Bill Bishop calls the acquisition a "strategic error" for Amazon. But I say, don't count Amazon out just yet. Because I've been only a sporadic Whole Foods shopper at best over the past few years, but lately I'm going hog-wild. And it all comes down to the fact that they have lowered prices--and now, I've discovered "Prime Now." Suddenly, my grocery shopping couldn't be easier; most days, I open the app, punch in my grocery list by mid-morning, and pick up the order (for free!) after work. What used to be a half-hour dreaded excursion to find parking, possibly wait in line to get in, race through the store, stress in the super-slow checkout line, get back and put everything away before picking up the kids, is now a five-minute trip where I roll up in my sweet new Honda Odyssey, hit the "I'm here" button on the app, and scream "THANK YOU!!!" to the workers who come right out and put the grocery bags in my trunk. Sure, it may not move the needle for Amazon right away on the Whole Foods front, but I'm no longer grocery shopping anywhere else except for when I need essentials like Ritz crackers and YoCrunch. A point I will concede to the skeptics, though; it's a point John Ransom made, too. The success of Amazon's discount cards, he said, will depend on how aggressively Amazon markets them, since so many Amazon services "get buried" in the company's various apps and ecosystem. And in fact, despite all my previous trips to Whole Foods, I had no idea the company even offered "Prime Now" until my neighbor casually mentioned it. I already had the Whole Foods and the Amazon apps--who knew I needed another one? Or perhaps Amazon knows word-of-mouth is its most powerful marketing tool anyhow; make Prime Now, or pharma delivery, or discount cards good enough and people will eventually figure it out. So long as they have the bandwidth internally to dedicate to all of these different initiatives, I wouldn't bet against them. See you at 1 p.m!KellyP.S. Click here to listen to The Exchange as a podcast. Twitter: @KellyCNBCInstagram: @realkellyevans

2020/12/14, Amazon's self-driving company Zoox unveiled its autonomous robotaxi on Monday.ZooxAmazon's self-driving vehicle company, Zoox, is taking the wraps off of its first robotaxi.Zoox on Monday debuted an electric, fully driverless vehicle that's built for ride hailing. It's a "carriage-style" car, which means that passengers face each other and there's no space for a driver or passenger seat, since there's no steering wheel. It has space for up to four passengers.Amazon acquired the six-year-old start-up in June and, at the time, gave few details about how it planned to use Zoox's technology. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos has previously expressed enthusiasm around the auto industry and the company has been using self-driving trucks to haul some cargo. Over time, self-driving vehicles like those envisioned by Zoox could fit into Amazon's sprawling logistics network, by making last-mile delivery cheaper and faster than before.Amazon acquired the six-year-old start-up in June and, at the time, gave few details about how it planned to use Zoox's technologyZooxThe robotaxi has a few features that set it apart from rivals like Alphabet's Waymo, GM's Cruise, Uber and Tesla. It has bidirectional driving capabilities and four-wheel steering, which allows it to change directions without the need to reverse and navigate in compact spaces.An array of cameras, radar and lidar sensors are mounted on all four corners of the car, eliminating "typical blind spots" and giving it a 270-degree field of view on the road. The car can travel up to 75 miles per hour and can run up to 16 hours on a single charge. It's also equipped with an airbag system on all four seats.Zoox's autonomous carriage has space for up to four passengers.ZooxThe vehicle is designed for ride-hailing in urban environments. Zoox said it's currently testing in three cities — Las Vegas, Nevada; Foster City, California; and San Francisco, California.The company plans to launch an app-based ridesharing service. Its first target markets will be San Francisco and Las Vegas, Zoox said."Zoox is the first in the industry to showcase a driving, purpose-built robotaxi capable of operating up to 75 miles per hour," the company told CNBC in a statement. "While our vehicle is not ready for commercial use yet, this marks a key milestone towards our vision of building an autonomous robotaxi fleet and ride-hailing service."It comes after GM's Cruise subsidiary unveiled its own driverless shuttle, called Origin, in January. Like Zoox's vehicle, it doesn't have manual controls like pedals or a steering wheel.VIDEO12:3012:30Why we don't have self-driving cars yetTech

2020/11/12, In this articleAAPLAMZNApple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCApple has a real competitor to the Amazon Echo, and it may provide Apple with yet another growth opportunity.According to eMarketer, 70% of smart speaker owners in the U.S. have an Amazon Echo. Google is largely seen as the nearest competitor to Amazon, followed by companies that build either Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant in their speakers, like Sonos. So far, Apple has largely sat on the sidelines while its competitors ran off with the market.The first HomePod launched in 2018 for $349, which was too expensive for most buyers who could get a similar product, albeit with lower sound quality, for much less. The $99 HomePod Mini is Apple's best shot to take market share away from Amazon.VIDEO3:2403:24Apple CEO Tim Cook kicks off iPhone event with new HomePod Mini revealNews VideosIt's good, but you'll get the most out of it in households that are invested in Apple's ecosystem of software and hardware. Here's what you need to know.What's goodApple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCI love how small the HomePod Mini is. It's slightly larger than a baseball -- far smaller than I expected -- and has a clean mesh design free of any ugly buttons. I tested the black model, which I liked, but it's also available in white.I've placed two around my houses in places where I normally don't like larger speakers, like on coffee tables in the living room or on the side of my desk. I also like that the touch-screen top glows when it's in use and lets you easily adjust the volume with a couple of taps.The sound quality is impressive for its size. Music sounded clear and, if I closed my eyes, often sounded like it was coming out of a larger speaker. It's also good at balancing songs so that you can hear all parts of them, although the bass isn't as pronounced given it doesn't have a dedicated woofer like some similarly priced speakers from Google and Amazon. It sounds on a par with Amazon's $50 Amazon Echo Dot but not as good -- especially in terms of bass -- as the larger $99 Amazon Echo or Google Nest Audio.Apple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCMusic sounds best if you pair the speaker with another HomePod Mini, which puts them in stereo mode so you have true left and right balance. The same is true of other speakers from Amazon and Google, which also allow you to do this. It's also easy to place different HomePod Mini's around the house and play music in different rooms, or the same song in some or all rooms.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsThe HomePod Mini can act as an intercom and send a message to all of your Apple devices.AppleApple packs in a bunch of other fun features. There's an intercom option that lets you broadcast a message to anyone in your family, so long as they have an iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch or their own HomePod Mini. It's useful if you want to tell the whole house dinner is ready, and I like that messages went to my other Apple devices even if I was home or not. You just get a little audio notification on your watch or phone that you can tap and play back, which is great since it won't automatically just play that message if you're in a meeting. The Amazon Echo and Google Nest speakers have similar features.Apple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCI also really like that I can start playing a song on my iPhone and tap the HomePod Mini and it'll start playing on the speaker. Or a song can start on the speaker and I can walk by and transfer it to the iPhone with another tap. Apple will release an update in the coming months that will improve the hand-off experience with vibration and colors so it feels more like a song is moving from one device to another.I like some of the added smarts in the latest HomePod software update, which is also available for the regular HomePod. You can ask for a personal update by saying "Hey Siri, what's my update?" and it'll read off your calendar events, the weather, traffic to your appointments, reminders and then a news briefing. I like that, although Google and Amazon let you do the same thing but let you customize your news source and what the digital assistant reads you.Another new feature called "Web Answers" that displays the results of questions you ask on your phone. So, if you ask something like "show me pictures of Rome" it will show pictures of Rome on your iPhone.I also liked the tie-in with Apple Maps. When I asked the HomePod Mini how long it'll take to get to my in-laws' beach house, CarPlay will recommend directions to that place when I got in the car.I have about a dozen lights and other smart gadgets around my house synced up with Apple Home, the app on iPhones, iPads and Macs that lets you control them with Siri or through an app. The HomePod Mini works well as a hub if you want to control gadgets when you're away from home, and I like that I can just speak to it to turn off my lights at night. But this works just as well on an iPhone or on the iPad/Apple TV, which also work as a Home hub.Apple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCThe real strength of the HomePod Mini is that it taps into lots of Apple's apps on your iPhone, which means iPhone owners will get the most out of it. You can ask Siri to add to your Notes app, for example, set reminders and tasks that sync with your phone, make and receive calls, find your lost iPhone or Apple Watch, send and receive iMessages and get news briefing from the News app. Those apps aren't available for the Google Nest Audio or Alexa, though similar ones are. It's just convenient if you already use them.What's badApple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCWhile you can use other services like Spotify to AirPlay Music to the HomePod, so far only Pandora has added support that lets you set it as the default option instead of Apple Music. So, you can change that setting and just say "Hey Siri, play music by Led Zeppelin" and it'll play from Pandora instead of Apple Music. That's a bummer for folks who pay for Spotify or other services that haven't added this support yet, though. The Amazon Echo and Google Nest Audio offer support for lots of default music services. I wish I could set more apps as the default service on the HomePod Mini.While the HomePod Mini is good for Apple users, and Siri has gotten a lot better in recent years, you can still do more with an Amazon Echo or Google Nest Hub. The Echo lets you buy stuff from Amazon, for example, or control your Amazon Fire TV. I'd like to see Apple add support for controlling the Apple TV from a HomePod Mini by voice, so that I could just ask it to start playing a movie or TV show. But you can't do that.The Google Nest Hub, as you might expect, ties better into Google services like Calendar and Maps, and has a smarter voice assistant since it taps into Google Search and knows a lot more about you if you regularly use Google services.But, if you're like me, you may use Siri or Google Assistant or Alexa to ask the weather or a sports score most of the time, and Siri can do that just fine.At the $99 price point, I also think the Nest Audio and Amazon Echo sound better. As I mentioned earlier, they have larger speakers and dedicated bass, so that's expected. The HomePod Mini sounds better to me than the $50 Amazon Echo Dot, though, which is similarly sized. In any case, if you want better audio than any of those speakers, look at the regular HomePod (now $299) or Sonos speakers that work with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa and support Apple Airplay but not Siri.Should you buy it?Apple HomePod MiniTodd Haselton | CNBCThe HomePod Mini makes a lot of sense for houses where the whole family is invested in Apple's hardware and software. If you use Apple apps and own an iPhone then, yeah, you'll like what the HomePod offers. It sounds good for the price and I think you'll like it.But if you have a diverse family of people who use lots of devices, or just prefer Amazon or Google services, then the HomePod doesn't make a ton of sense. You'd have competing ecosystems that don't work well together. That's sort of the problem with those whole smart home speaker category in general -- once you buy one product it makes the most sense to sort of just keep buying those so that you can expand on it. And it seems overly costly to switch from any of them to another.If it's purely audio quality you're chasing, I recommend checking out Sonos speakers. I still think they offer the best sound for the price. If you want a better sounding speaker with the Apple tie-in, get the regular HomePod for $299.VIDEO0:4100:41Apple just announced its HomePod mini smart speakerThe ExchangeSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/11/26, An Amazon warehouseGetty ImagesAmazon is providing front-line workers a one-time bonus to share its appreciation for their work heading into "the peak of the holiday season," the company announced Thursday.In a blog post, Dave Clark, Amazon's senior vice president of retail operations, said full-time operations staff who are employed by the company from December 1 to December 31 will receive a $300 bonus. Part-time workers employed within the same timeframe will receive a $150 bonus."I've been at Amazon for 22 holiday seasons and this one is definitely unique, to say the least," Clark said. "I'm grateful to our teams who continue to play a vital role serving their communities."Amazon said it will spend more than $500 million on the one-time holiday payments. In June, Amazon also spent $500 million on "Thank You" bonuses for front-line employees who continued to come to work amid the coronavirus pandemic.The company has spent billions of dollars since March on coronavirus-related investments, including wage increases, safety gear and enhanced cleaning measures, as well as on building out testing capabilities. Amazon issued temporary wage increases and double overtime pay at the height of the pandemic, but both of those incentives came to an end in June.Since then, warehouse workers have expressed frustration that their hazard pay was being cut even as the pandemic has persisted and they still face increased health and safety risks in the workplace. In October, Amazon disclosed that more than 19,000 of its front-line workers in the U.S. contracted the coronavirus between March 1 and Sept. 19.Amazon defended its decision to end the wage increases and double overtime pay, saying these pay premiums were announced to "help meet increased demand" from online orders, which has since stabilized.  Retailers including Walmart and Target have also paid out bonuses to their workers as the holiday shopping season picks up.VIDEO2:3302:33Amazon launches online pharmacy in the United StatesSquawk Box

2020/11/27, An Amazon worker delivers packages amid the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak in Denver, Colorado.Kevin Mohatt | Reuters(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only.)E-commerce giant Amazon is poised to be the biggest winner this holiday season as the pandemic forces many Americans to shop online, according to Wall Street firm Truist Securities. The firm also gave clients other big winners into year-end.Truist estimated that Amazon will claim 42 cents of every dollar spent during the full year-end shopping season as Black Friday kicks off a "robust" holiday shopping period amid rising Covid-19 cases.

2020/10/24, In this articleAMZNGrocery store workers and others stage a protest rally outside the Whole Foods Market, in the South End of Boston, to demand personal protective equipment, added benefits if needed and hazard pay, during the coronavirus pandemic on Apr. 7, 2020.Pat Greenhouse | Boston Globe | Getty ImagesAmazon warehouse workers have a long history of agitating for change. But the coronavirus crisis has generated new momentum for employees to speak candidly about workplace conditions.Since March, employees have held protests to demand safer working conditions, created online petitions to draw attention to their concerns and formed new worker groups. The surge of employee activism has raised the question of whether labor unions might try to seize the moment to organize Amazon workers.Between March and September, the company employed more than 1.37 million front-line Amazon and Whole Foods workers in the U.S. That number doesn't include the tens of thousands of contracted drivers who are responsible for Amazon's last-mile deliveries.Unionizing Amazon's workforce would be an uphill battle. The company has managed to head off major labor unions since its founding in 1994. Labor unions have organized some of Amazon's European workforce, but no U.S. facility has successfully formed or joined a union."Amazon has always been actively trying to dissuade employees from organizing unions," said Marcus Courtney, a longtime labor advocate who attempted to unionize call center workers at Amazon in the early 2000s. "That was true 20 years ago and it's true today." Unions stand to disrupt the level of control that Amazon has over its warehouse and delivery employees, like their ability to unilaterally set the pace of work and hourly wages, said Tom Kochan, a professor of industrial relations, work and employment at MIT. "Amazon controls everything from bathroom breaks to communication with other employees," Kochan said. "If a union comes in, they're going to lose some of that control and that's ultimately what they fear most."Tracking workplace unrestA string of recent events shows the extent of Amazon's efforts to avoid unions and track workplace unrest. CNBC previously reported that Amazon posted a job listing for two intelligence analysts who could monitor "labor organizing threats" and other sensitive topics, and report their findings to "internal stakeholders, up to and including executive leadership." Amazon later deleted the job listings and said the job descriptions were inaccurate.Amazon recently posted two job listings for senior intelligence analysts charged with tracking "labor organizing threats," among other "sensitive topics."Amazon attracted further scrutiny earlier this month after Recode reported that it sought staffing and funds to buy software that would help it better analyze and visualize data on unions, called the geoSPatial Operating Console, or SPOC. In September, Vice reported that Amazon's HR department appeared to be monitoring employee listservs that were hotspots for employee activism. A separate Vice report found Amazon corporate employees were monitoring closed Facebook groups used by contracted Flex drivers to track planned strikes and organizing activity.Amazon has denied that these programs were designed for detecting and curbing union activity. But despite its assurances, some warehouse workers say they view surveillance and the potential for retribution as a threat to unionization efforts.Politicians, labor unions and workers rights groups also remain skeptical of the company's views on employee organizing. Last week, senators including Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) wrote a letter to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos seeking more information about the steps Amazon takes when it becomes aware of an active organizing campaign. "The fact that Amazon has decided to heavily invest in systems to retaliate against freedom of expression about unsafe and unhealthy working conditions, and to refer to organizing efforts as threats against the company equal to those posed by hate groups and terrorism, is unacceptable," the senators wrote. "Labor organizing campaigns are a legally protected activity."When asked its stance on unions, Amazon has previously pointed to the rapid pace of innovation in its warehouses and the importance of direct communication between managers and employees, both of which might be impacted by a unionized workforce. VIDEO19:1619:16How Amazon fends off unions as labor rights groups rally workers to protestTechAmazon spokesperson Lisa Levandowski told CNBC in a statement that the company respects workers' right to join or not join a union."Across Amazon, including in our operations facilities, we place enormous value on having daily conversations with each associate and work to make sure direct engagement with our employees is a strong part of our work culture," she added.Amazon also offered interviews with several warehouse workers who said they did not want to join a union."For me, I've been here almost four years and that's not something that I want," said Abdirizak Abdi, a process assistant at Amazon's Shakopee, Minnesota, warehouse. "I'm really happy and enjoying the atmosphere and what they do for our customers and our associates too."Allison Clawson, who's also a process assistant at the Shakopee facility, agreed with Abdi and said the company encourages workers to voice their concerns with managers, particularly through the "Voice of the Associate" whiteboard in the workplace."I have never met a manager that has never made time to talk to me if I had expressed a concern or asked if they had time to talk," Clawson added.When asked about the purpose of the SPOC tool, Levandowski said Amazon sought funding for software that enables geospatial mapping, which would allow the company to look at various events happening outside its buildings, such as large gatherings, natural disasters and power outages, and weigh how they'd impact employees.Levandowski didn't say whether Amazon monitors potential union activity in email communications or whether it would track such activity via the SPOC tool. The company uses open email forums and other methods to gather employee feedback at scale, she said. Amazon stopped aggregating information from closed Facebook groups, like what was detailed in the Vice report, after it learned one business unit was doing so, Levandowski said. "That approach doesn't meet our standards," she added. Old-school tacticsAmazon isn't the only big business that has developed robust strategies for monitoring employee dissent. Walmart, the world's largest private employer, has also been accused of monitoring employee discussions on Reddit. Employees at fellow tech giant Google previously alleged the company created a tool to flag possible organizing activity. But Amazon has developed a reputation among union organizers as being particularly aggressive."Walmart did get a lot of heat for its labor practices, but I think it has been supplanted by Amazon," said Iain Gold, a director with the Teamsters, which is one of several major labor unions that has engaged with Amazon warehouse and delivery workers. "Amazon has taken spying on workers and trying to understand workforce behavioral trends or predilections to the next level."George Miranda, vice president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, left, and Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail Wholesale Department Store Union (RWDU), speak during a protest against Amazon outside of City Hall in New York, U.S., on Wednesday, Jan. 30, 2019.Sangsuk Sylvia Kang | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesSome forms of surveillance are acceptable under the National Labor Relations Act, a federal law that protects employees' right to organize and prevents private corporations from engaging in unfair labor practices. For example, companies can monitor email communications in the workplace. Collecting data to head off union organizing before it happens is "frankly just good business," said Jeff Wilson, litigation director at law firm Young Basile. But some tactics are considered unlawful, like creating the impression of surveillance for the purpose of chilling attempts at unionizing or spying on private Facebook chats, Wilson said."The surveillance itself is not an NLRA violation, but it's how the employer executes and implements that policy where things could cross the line," Wilson said. Other surveillance tactics, like reports of Amazon's Whole Foods creating a union tracking system, are just one of the ways "sophisticated employers" have gotten more adept at squashing union activity, Kochan said."They will hire not only lawyers but anti-union consultants," Kochan said. "They'll invest in videos to emphasize how strongly they're opposed to union organizing. It's very difficult for a union to overcome that."Courtney said he witnessed some of these tactics two decades ago, when he and a division of the Communications Workers of America helped launch a campaign to organize hundreds of Amazon's customer service workers in Seattle. Amazon later closed the call center where the employees worked as part of a broader restructuring. Before Courtney became involved in the unionization effort at Amazon, he also attempted to organize Microsoft contract workers in the 1990s. Courtney said he felt Microsoft was "more hands off" during the process, while Amazon appeared to adopt the anti-union tactics that were common in old-line industrial facilities.Amid the unionization effort, Amazon created a website for managers laying out warning signs that workers are trying to organize. It also held regular meetings to argue why unionization would be bad for business. "I think Amazon took a much more active and proactive role in trying to dissuade workers from joining which was unusual at the time in the technology industry," Courtney said. "A lot of the stuff we're seeing today is just the growth of what was happening back then." Amazon workers Prime Day protest in Shakopee, Minnesota, on July 15, 2019.Katie SchoolovOutsmarting AmazonSome workers inside Amazon and at gig economy companies like Instacart and Target's Shipt have migrated their organizing activity online to get the privacy and anonymity that's not always possible on the shop floor or in the break room. Facebook groups and encrypted chat apps such as Signal and Telegram have become increasingly popular tools for employee activism both during and before the pandemic.John Hopkins, who works at Amazon's San Leandro, California distribution center, is trying to unionize his workplace with digital tools. Hopkins has been an outspoken critic of Amazon's labor practices and, earlier this year, helped launch Bay Area Amazonians, an employee group that aims to secure safer working conditions at the company. Hopkins is creating a new online organizing platform on Zoom's Keybase, an end-to-end encryption and security service that also offers secure messaging and file sharing. To use the platform, workers will have to create a decentralized identifier, similar to a bitcoin address, that's recognizable to others who've joined the network but appears anonymous to anyone who isn't authorized. Eventually, Hopkins hopes that his coworkers will be able to use the platform to sign a union authorization card digitally — a practice the National Labor Relations Board began allowing in 2015.Hopkins said he was partly motivated to create a new platform because other online employee groups don't always feel like a safe place for open discussion about unionizing. "If you go on the Facebook forums, there are so many conversations where you'll start to have the beginnings of an interesting discussion, and then somebody will come in and remind everyone that you're not really safe," Hopkins said. "And so it chills discussion without [Amazon] even having to actually go through with it."The goal is to give warehouse workers confidence that they have control over their information, Hopkins said. He acknowledged that it will take some time to educate coworkers on how the system works, but he remains optimistic that there will be a willingness to learn."One of the things that frustrates me is that it very much feels like there is an assumption that folks in the warehouses are uneducated and that's not the case in my experience," Hopkins said. "I'm honestly not taking the perspective that any of this is too complicated for workers to grasp."

2020/11/17, In this articleAMZNVIDEO2:3302:33Amazon launches online pharmacy in the United StatesSquawk BoxPharmacy stocks fell sharply on Tuesday after Amazon launched its new Pharmacy offering, which includes online ordering and delivery for prescription drugs.Dow Jones Industrial Average member Walgreens Boots Alliance dropped 9.6% on Tuesday. CVS Health shares lost 8.6%. Shares of Rite Aid fell 16.3%, while GoodRx stock declined 22.5%.Amazon Pharmacy is available in 45 states and accepts most forms of insurance. Amazon Prime members can also receive discounts on generic and name-brand drugs when paying without insurance, the company said.Amazon has been building its pharmacy offerings for several years, including acquiring PillPack in 2018. Shares of the tech giant closed marginally higher on Tuesday amid a broader decline for the market.The pressure from Amazon comes as pharmacy stocks have already underperformed the broader market in 2020. As of Monday's close, shares of CVS were down 1% year to date, while Rite Aid had lost 16%.Investment firm Evercore ISI said in a note to clients that the drug store stocks will continue to struggle until investors can get a better sense of how successful Amazon Pharmacy will be."Today's announcement is a net negative and will likely bring back conversations about the appropriate multiples despite recent positive news about the role of drug stores in coronavirus vaccine distribution," the note said. "This will likely create an overhang for the group until we determine the take up of Amazon Pharmacy."The sell-off for pharmacy stocks follows a long pattern of Amazon's new ventures leading to underperformance among market leaders. When the company announced its deal to buy Whole Foods in 2017, grocery store stocks like Kroger and Costco were hit hard.

2021/02/03, In this articleAAPLGOOGLAMZNConservatives flocked to social media platform Parler during the 2020 presidential election. Parler bills itself as an alternative to Twitter and Facebook, which some believe overstepped their bounds when they began to label then-President Donald Trump's posts and eventually banned him.One of Parler's draws has been its more relaxed moderation policies. Founded in 2018 by John Matze and Jared Thomson, Parler was meant to be a "town square," where people could freely express their views without fear of being "deplatformed."But this has led to a slew of violent posts on the platform. Now, Google, Apple and Amazon have abandoned Parler, and the company's future is uncertain. Watch the video to find out more.

2020/11/02, In this articleAMZNAmazon workers at Amazon's Staten Island warehouse strike in demand that the facility be shut down and cleaned after one staffer tested positive for the coronavirus on March 30, 2020 in New York.Angela Weiss | AFP | Getty ImagesA federal judge on Monday dismissed a lawsuit against Amazon that accused the company of failing to stop the spread of the coronavirus by creating unsafe working conditions, deferring to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Four employees at Amazon's Staten Island, New York, fulfillment center filed the complaint in June. The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court for New York's Eastern District, alleged Amazon violated public nuisance and workplace safety laws by engaging in "purposeful miscommunication with workers" and prioritizing productivity at the expense of safety. Amazon warehouse workers have routinely criticized the company's response to the pandemic over the past several months, saying it failed to adequately protect them from the coronavirus. Amazon and its CEO, Jeff Bezos, have pushed back on these accusations, saying the company has gone to "great lengths" to safeguard workers.Workers at the Staten Island facility, called JFK8, claimed Amazon failed to follow public health guidelines around the coronavirus, which put them and their family members at risk of getting sick. Barbara Chandler, one of the workers who filed the lawsuit, was among the first confirmed cases at JFK8, according to the complaint. Chandler's cousin, whom she lived with, died in April after suffering from coronavirus symptoms, the lawsuit said. The suit also alleged that Amazon violated New York labor law by failing to provide coronavirus sick pay "on a timely basis" and breached its duty to maintain a safe workplace. Judge Brian Cogan dismissed the employees' claims, deferring to OSHA in response to workers' request for an injunction that would require Amazon to follow public health standards. "No doubt, shutting down JFK8 completely during the pandemic while continuing to provide employees with pay and benefits would be the best protection against contagion at the workplace," Cogan wrote in the ruling. "But someone has to strike a balance between maintaining some level of operations in conjunction with some level of protective measures."The workers' claims and request for an injunction "go to the heart of OSHA's expertise and discretion," Cogan said.Amazon has maintained that it has always followed public health guidance around the coronavirus and provided employees with adequate personal protective equipment. "Nothing is more important than the health and safety of our employees," Amazon spokeswoman Lisa Levandowski told CNBC in a statement.Advocacy groups including Towards Justice, Public Justice, and Make the Road New York, who jointly filed the lawsuit with workers, called the court's decision "devastating" for Amazon employees and said they're weighing an appeal. It's unclear whether JFK8 employees plan to file an OSHA complaint.The decision "frees Amazon to continue to discourage workers to take adequate time to wash their hands at workstations, to fail to promptly pay for quarantine leave in line with some state laws, to undergo 'contact tracing' that doesn't include the most basic steps in tracking worker contacts, and to continue failing to clearly communicate to workers about what they should do if they begin experiencing symptoms or believe they've been exposed," the groups added. Early on in the pandemic, Amazon's Staten Island facility became a nexus for growing tensions between the company and warehouse employees. JFK8 workers held a protest in March to demand that the facility be shut down for extra cleaning. Amazon then drew public scrutiny after it fired Chris Smalls, a lead organizer of the strike, for violating social distancing rules.Last month, Amazon disclosed that nearly 20,000 front-line employees contracted Covid-19 between March 1 and Sept. 19. The company said the rate of infection among employees was 42% lower than expected, compared with the general population rate in the U.S.VIDEO1:3401:34Amazon aims to hire 100,000 seasonal workersSquawk on the Street

2020/11/24, An Amazon fulfillment center in Frankenthal, Germany.Thorsten Wagner | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon is joining forces with a U.S. government watchdog group to conduct counterfeit inspections, the company announced Tuesday, in its latest effort to address a problem that's plagued the e-commerce platform for years.The company will work with the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center, a task force that's overseen by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, to "analyze data and conduct targeted inspections aimed at preventing counterfeit products from entering the U.S. supply chain," Amazon said. Any evidence collected from their inspections will be used to expand ongoing investigations and go after bad actors.The initiative, referred to as "Operation Fulfilled Action," is led by Amazon's Counterfeit Crimes Unit. The team was launched earlier this year and is made up of former federal prosecutors, investigators and data analysts who mine the site for information and work with federal prosecutors.Amazon's marketplace, launched in 2000, now accounts for more than half the company's overall sales. While it's been a key driver of Amazon's overall business, it has also faced a number of issues related to counterfeits, as well as unsafe and expired goods. Knockoff goods have been especially harmful for Amazon's relationships with some brands, such as Nike and Birkenstock, who quit Amazon following a surge in counterfeits.The company has ramped up its efforts to stamp out counterfeits on the platform. It has pursued counterfeiters in court, rolled out various programs to seek and detect sales of counterfeit goods and continues to block millions of suspected bad actor accounts and listings.VIDEO3:3703:37Here's why Amazon Pharmacy may be good for the health care industrySquawk Box

2020/12/15, In this articleAMZNDavid Limp, senior vice president of devices and services at Amazon.com Inc., presents the Amazon Echo Dot smart speaker during an unveiling event at the company's Spheres headquarters in Seattle, Washington, U.S., on Thursday, Sept. 20, 2018.Andrew Burton | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon on Tuesday announced that you can now ask the Alexa voice assistant, through your phone or an Amazon Echo, to share your shopping list with friends or family.It's particularly useful now, during the holidays, in case you want to share your kid's gift list with someone. But it's also useful if a family member is at the store and you want to create a quick list of items for them to pick up, or for people who might be vision impaired and want to create and share a list by voice.Here's how to use Alexa to send a shopping list to someone.How to share your shopping list with Amazon AlexaFirst, you need to create a shopping list. You can do this in the Alexa app for iPhone or Android, tapping "more" and opening the "Lists & Notes" menu item and adding items under "Shopping." Or you can just tell Alexa to add items to your list by saying "Alexa, add soap to my shopping list."Next, you share the list by opening the Alexa app and tapping the Alexa button on the top of the screen and then speaking "Alexa, share my shopping list."Alexa will ask who you want to share it with. Then, speak the name of your friend or family member.That's the gist of it. Your family member or friend will receive a notification on their phone and on their Amazon Echos alerting them you've shared the list. And they'll be able to see it and buy whatever you've requested.VIDEO2:2702:27Amazon and Google are becoming omnipresent whether you like it or notTech

2020/10/27, (This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Wall Street analysts believe Amazon is poised to deliver another blow-out quarter when the e-commerce giant reports third-quarter earnings on Thursday after the bell.Shares are up 76% this year compared to the S&P 500 which is up just 5%.Consumers have flocked to the "stay-at-home" stock and analysts say the company will continue to benefit through the holiday season even as the econonmy re-opens and online sales grow.Amazon has also invested heavily in its shipping infrastructure and investors will be looking for signs the company is prepared to handle the expected demand. Other key catalysts to watch include Prime Member adds and revenue from digital advertising and the company's Amazon Web Services cloud business.Here's what analysts expect from Amazon's earnings report:

2020/11/23, In this articleAMZNAmazon announces new wireless earbuds, Echo Buds, at an event in Seattle on Sept. 25, 2019.CNBC | Todd HaseltonAmazon announced on Monday that it's rolling out fitness-tracking features to its Echo Buds headphones. It's a feature CNBC noticed Amazon was testing last year.Amazon said the Echo Buds can track the duration of a workout, the steps you take, estimated calories burned and how fast or how far you walk or run. The feature is rolling out over the next couple of days, according to the company.CNBC hasn't yet tested the feature but Amazon's Halo wearable seems to be the company's more serious approach to health monitoring. Amazon said steps are measured using an accelerometer in the Echo Buds. It also takes into account a user's height entered into the workout profile.Amazon said customers can get started by doing this:Open the Alexa app on your phone.Tap "More" on the bottom of the screen.Tap "Settings."Choose Account Settings.Tap Workouts.Select "Create Workout profile."After a workout, Echo Buds users can see stats by doing this:Open the Alexa app.Tap devices.Choose "Echo & Alexa."Select "Echo Buds."Select "Workouts."Echo Buds owners can start a workout by saying "Alexa start my run." You can also ask Alexa to pause a workout, end a workout and request an update on your pace.VIDEO5:0105:01Amazon and Apple battle for the best earbudsSquawk BoxSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/10/30, Jeff Bezos, founder of AmazonKatherine Taylor | Reuters(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only).Amazon's strong third-quarter earnings report spurred several Wall Street analysts to boost their price targets for the stock.In its report Thursday afternoon, the e-commerce giant easily topped Wall Street estimates for earnings and revenue in the third quarter, but guidance for high Covid-related costs during the fourth quarter gave some analysts pause. The stock was down nearly 4% in Friday morning trading to roughly $3,087 per share.

2020/12/14, In this articleAMZNFBFederal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairman Joe Simon speaks during a press conference on September 4, 2019, at the FTC headquarters in Washington, DC. - Simons announced Google agreed to pay a $170 million fine to settle charges that it illegally collected and shared data from children on its YouTube video service without consent of parents. (Photo by Mandel Ngan / AFP) (Photo credit should read MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images)MANDEL NGAN | AFP | Getty ImagesThe Federal Trade Commission is requiring nine tech companies to share information about how they collect and use data from their users, the agency announced Monday.Amazon, TikTok owner ByteDance, Discord, Facebook and its subsidiary WhatsApp, Reddit, Snap, Twitter and Google-owned YouTube were each sent orders to hand over information about their data practices. The companies have 45 days to respond from the date they received the orders.Along with details about how the services collect and use data, the agency is seeking information about how how they determine which ads to show their users, whether algorithms or data analytics are used on personal information, how they "measure promote, and research" engagement from users and how their data practices impact children and teens.The FTC is using its authority under Section 6(b) of the FTC Act, which allows it to pursue broad studies separate from law enforcement. The agency launched a separate 6(b) study earlier this year to examine past acquisitions by Google parent Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Microsoft that would not have been subject to pre-reporting rules for mergers. Chairman Joe Simons said at the time that while a 6(b) study is not connected to an enforcement action, the merger review could "definitely could inform enforcement."The FTC filed charges last week against Facebook alleging the company has unlawfully maintained a monopoly in personal social networking services. The lawsuit, filed alongside a separate complaint from a group of 48 states and territories, claims Facebook bought up nascent rivals like Instagram and WhatsApp that it feared would enter its core business area. The enforcers claim Facebook's actions have harmed consumers in part by diluting the quality of services available, including based on features like privacy. Facebook called the lawsuit "revisionist history" of its two major acquisitions which the FTC itself allowed to go through.The commissioners voted to issue Monday's orders in a 4-1 vote with Republican Commissioner Noah Joshua Phillips dissenting. In a statement, Phillips wrote that while he appreciates the stated aim of the orders, he believes they are "instead an undisciplined foray into a wide variety of topics, some only tangentially related to the stated focus of this investigation."Phillips added, "The breadth of the inquiry, the tangential relationship of its parts, and the dissimilarity of the recipients combine to render these orders unlikely to produce the kind of information the public needs, and certain to divert scarce Commission resources better directed elsewhere."Three of the commissioners who voted in favor of the action said in a statement, "The FTC wants to understand how business models influence what Americans hear and see, with whom they talk, and what information they share... And the FTC wants to better understand the financial incentives of social media and video streaming services.""We're working, as we always do, to ensure the FTC has the information it needs to understand how Twitter operates its services," a Twitter spokesperson said in a statement."Discord takes user privacy very seriously and we look forward to working with the FTC to answer their questions about our privacy practices," a spokesperson for the company said in a statement. "Importantly, there are no ads on Discord. We make no money from advertising, selling user data to advertisers, or sharing users' personal information with others. Instead, the company generates its revenue directly from users through a paid subscription service called Nitro.""We are looking forward to working with the FTC and sharing with them our user privacy policies and practices," a Reddit spokesperson said in a statement.The other companies named in the orders did not immediately respond to CNBC's requests for comment.VIDEO2:2702:27Facebook calls the FTC antitrust lawsuit a 'do-over'Squawk BoxSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2020/11/20, In this articleAMZNTHBOIn a victory for AT&T's WarnerMedia, HBO will no longer be available as an Amazon Channel after their current placement deal expires next year, according to people familiar with the matter.Today, HBO's presence in the Amazon Channels store lets users watch regular HBO programming within the Amazon Fire TV user interface, making it easy for consumers to subscribe and sign up. But this placement was a major sticking point in the negotiations to get HBO Max, the company's separate streaming service, on to the Amazon Fire TV platform, according to the people, who asked not to be named because the deal terms are private.Those talks dragged on for months before concluding this week with a deal.HBO Max includes additional content that's not available on HBO, like "South Park and "The Big Bang Theory." Over time, WarnerMedia would like the HBO Max application to be the only point of entry into HBO services on streaming platforms.Although this user interface distinction may feel esoteric to most consumers, it matters a lot to WarnerMedia. Keeping subscribers within the HBO Max application allows WarnerMedia to have a direct relationship with consumers and to gain viewer information that can be used for targeted advertising. An advertising-supported version of HBO Max is slated for launch next year.VIDEO3:1203:12WarnerMedia CEO: 'Not at all' worried about the success of HBO MaxSquawk AlleyConsumers who purchased HBO through Amazon Channels will be able to log in to HBO Max for no extra charge through the HBO Max application. Legacy HBO will remain in the Channels store until its agreement -- which is separate from the HBO Max deal -- expires next year.Still, keeping HBO and HBO Max out of the Amazon Channels store could hurt subscriber growth.With Amazon's deal done, WarnerMedia will turn its attention to hammering out an agreement with Roku, the largest streaming video platform by market share, the people said. Roku also has a channels business, which HBO Max is fighting to avoid. WarnerMedia will also have to come to an advertising revenue share agreement with Roku, similar to NBCUniversal's Peacock, which reached a deal with Roku in September.Spokespeople for WarnerMedia and Amazon declined to comment.

2020/12/03, In this articleAAPLAMZNYou can now text with Alexa on your iPhone.Todd Haselton | CNBCAmazon recently began testing a new feature on the iPhone that lets you text Alexa instead of speaking to it. You can use it to ask questions, order products from Amazon, call people and more.It's useful if you're unable to speak or simply don't want to — like when you're in bed next to a sleeping partner but still want to use Alexa to look something up.You can already interact with Apple's Siri and Google's Assistant this way. But if you prefer Alexa, this is a new way of interacting with it.Here's how to text with Alexa on your iPhone:Download the Amazon Alexa app from the App Store.Open the Amazon Alexa app on your iPhone.Tap the keyboard icon on the top left of the screen.Type in your question and tap send.Alexa will respond, and you can hold a conversation.You can ask simple questions, such as "How tall is the Empire State Building?" or ask Alexa to call people by typing "Call Steve," for example. You can also add things to your to-do list and control smart gadgets in your home.You may notice a message that says, "By the way, typing with me is part of a public preview, so I'm still getting the hang of it!" That means there may be new features added later.I'd like to see more visual content, such as images of the weather forecast when I ask the weather or different items I can buy when I ask to shop for something. Those are features already available on other screens with Alexa, such as Amazon's Echo Show products.VIDEO12:5912:59How virtual assistants have evolved, and why Siri lags behind the othersTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/12/12, Inside every smartphone and tablet lies a dense brick with a dark and complex history: its battery. The lithium that ferries charge back and forth likely started out in South American salt flats, where months of evaporation consumes millions of tons of water in some of the world's driest regions. The cobalt that buffers the material against the ravages of daily recharging probably came from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where children have allegedly been maimed and killed extracting it from the ground. To gather the assorted atoms and fashion them into a working battery may have required thousands of people from perhaps a dozen countries. Then, after a few years of use, spent devices often end up in landfills and incinerators. As lithium-ion batteries stand poised to jump from handheld devices into cars, trucks, and homes, entrepreneurs and academics are racing to find a way to reuse the hard-won materials. Investors are betting millions that a Nevada company, Redwood Materials, can mine electronic waste for metals. A competitor, Li-Cycle, aims to crack the logistical puzzle of transporting batteries. Others are developing the technology to rejuvenate dead batteries without breaking them down fully. By attacking the problem on all fronts, the teams work toward one goal: transforming exhausted batteries into a valuable resource."We're spending all of this money making batteries, making chemicals, and then we're burning them at the end of the cycle," says Tim Johnston, Li-Cycle co-founder and executive chairman. "That's not right."Industry insiders speak with excitement and trepidation of a looming battery "tsunami." Globally people already toss out more than 500,000 tons of lithium batteries today, according to Ajay Kochhar, Li-Cycle co-founder and president, mostly in the form of small electronics. But as the world transitions to an electric economy, its appetite for lithium-ion bricks is projected to increase tenfold by 2030. Most of that explosion will be driven by electric vehicles, which carry batteries weighing more than 1,000 pounds. "We're at the tip of the iceberg," Kochhar says.Kochhar and others see that problem as an opportunity to replace today's fragile and problematic supply chain with a more "circular" system, one that builds the next generation of batteries from the materials of the last generation. And they won't be recycling just for the sake of recycling. The market for recycling lithium-ion batteries alone could be worth $18 billion annually by 2030, Statista estimates, up from $1.5 billion in 2019.  Tesla co-founder's recycling start-upOne start-up leading the U.S. market is Redwood Materials, the latest venture of Tesla co-founder JB Straubel. During the 16 years he spent working as Tesla's CTO, Straubel realized that there was no plan for processing the cars at the end of their lifespan. And unlike a phone, a half-ton car battery can't just languish at the back of a junk drawer. Most electric vehicles are currently in their prime (Straubel drives what he believes is the oldest Tesla on the planet — a Roadster prototype from the late 2000s), but the tsunami will begin when early electric cars will start retiring en masse in the next five years.We're spending all of this money making batteries, making chemicals, and then we're burning them at the end of the cycle. That's not right.Tim Johnstonco-founder Li-CycleSince launching in 2017, Redwood Materials has been preparing for that first wave. Located in Carson City, the start-up's two facilities currently handle all the waste materials and defective batteries coming out of the nearby Tesla Gigafactory, co-owned by Panasonic. Panasonic scrap alone provides about one gigawatt of material annually and a dozen other partners contribute a similar amount, for a total equivalent of about 20,000 tons of material per year. The company also recently partnered with Amazon to dispose of batteries from the retail giant.From batteries to atomsAfter sorting recent arrivals, the company uses proprietary processes involving a combination of burning batteries to melt their contents and submerging them in liquids that leach out desired elements (although the exact procedure is tailored to fit the battery type). In the end, a PR spokesperson said, the techniques recover 95% to 98% of a battery's nickel, cobalt, aluminum, graphite, and more than 80% of its lithium. Much of those materials are sold back to Panasonic to make new Tesla batteries."Redwood Materials has assembled an excellent team that is working collaboratively with us to tackle a wide range of waste streams, and to develop raw materials that we can then use in our cell making processes," says Celina Mikolajczak, v.p. of battery technology, Panasonic Energy of North America.The materials companies and researchers hope to recover from a battery pack.Image courtesy of Argonne National LaboratoryThe company is currently working on increasing the capacity of its Carson City facilities with the help of $40 million in funding from Capricorn Investment Group and Breakthrough Energy Ventures, an environmental investment fund including Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates.A 'hub and spoke' modelJohnston and Kochhar came to found Li-Cycle in a similar way, launching it in 2016 after working together at Hatch, a global engineering firm specializing in battery chemicals. They've structured their business around a 'hub and spoke' model.Because batteries are fire hazards, they can be expensive to transport safely. To keep distances down, Li-Cycle intends to collect batteries at local "spoke" facilities, which shred the bricks into three components: plastic casings, mixed metals (such as foils), and the active materials like cobalt and nickel at the battery's heart — a dark dust known as "black mass."Li-Cycle can sell these materials directly or ship the black mass to a central "hub" factory and immerse it in liquids at room temperature that Johnston says extract the metals at 90% to 95% efficiency — even lithium, which many processes struggle to capture efficiently.  VIDEO2:4402:44Tesla CEO Elon Musk touted new tech at 'Battery Day'—Here's what he saidNews VideosThe company currently has two spokes running, one in Ontario, Canada and one in Rochester, New York, which can break apart a combined 10,000 tons of lithium-ion batteries each year. Li-Cycle recently announced plans to build their first hub, also in Rochester, which will be able to separate 25,000 tons of black mass (from 65,000 tons of batteries) annually into lithium, cobalt, nickel, and other elements starting in late 2022. Like Redwood Materials, the company hopes to expand as quickly as possible, having raised about $50 million in funding so far."This is a big space, and we need an army of recyclers," Kochhar says.Rejuvenating moleculesBut looking ahead, researchers note that the long-term margins of scavenging batteries for their atomic parts may prove punishingly thin. The chemical structure of batteries shifts from year to year — Panasonic slashed the cobalt content in Tesla batteries by 60% between 2012 and 2018, for instance. These changes may require continuously tweaking the recycling process while also making it less lucrative (Cobalt is the most expensive, and valuable, battery element).Li-CycleA more efficient route may be to recycle batteries at a higher level, salvaging their larger molecular structure as opposed to their atoms. Steve Sloop, a chemist and founder of a battery research firm called OnTo Technology, likens a battery to an apartment building. Rather than knock it down for wood and brick, why not renovate? "A lot of energy is invested in making [batteries]," he says. "We're trying to save that investment."In the case of lithium-ion batteries, that means replacing the lithium, a little bit of which gets stuck to the battery's molecular scaffolding during every charge and discharge. When the battery runs out of freely flowing lithium, it dies. In September, Sloop published a case study describing how his lab automatically disassembled and shredded recalled Apple batteries, soaking their active materials in a lithium-rich bath to restore them to pristine condition. The final product marked the first full fuel cell re-assembled from an industrial source.And OnTo Technology is just one group pursuing this "direct recycling" strategy. The Department of Energy funds a research consortium called the ReCell Center, which supports similar projects. The center is currently organizing an informal competition between several different types of "re-lithiation" to see which performs best, according to Linda Gaines, a transportation systems analyst at Argonne National Laboratory, which is leading the effort.  "Re-lithiation has come a long way," she says. "It really is at the stage where we can think about scaling up."Scaling up will be the major challenge all these initiatives face. In the lab, reducing batteries to atoms, or replacing lithium, is relatively easy. But how to collect, transport, sort, disassemble, process, and redistribute the millions of tons of materials that are coming is anything but."This is a new technology that's coming to market," says Gavin Harper, a materials scientist at the University of Birmingham who is involved with ReLib, a UK battery recycling project. "We haven't seen the problems and the challenges and also the opportunities that it's going to create."

2020/11/10, In this articleAMZNVIDEO2:2702:27E.U. to announce antitrust charges against Amazon Tuesday: Financial TimesSquawk BoxLONDON — The European Commission said Tuesday that Amazon breached European antitrust rules by using independent sellers' data for its own benefit.It has also announced a second formal investigation into the company's e-commerce processes.In a statement, the commission said Amazon was using the data of third-party sellers — such as order numbers, revenues and number of visitors — to inform its strategic business decisions, like reducing the price of products.The issue arises because of Amazon's dual role in selling products itself, and acting as a platform for independent — sometimes rival — sellers."Data on the activity of third-party sellers should not be used to the benefit of Amazon when it acts as a competitor to these sellers," Margrethe Vestager, the EU's competition chief, said in the statement.The commission, the executive arm of the European Union, launched a probe into the online retailer in July 2019 on concerns over anti-competitive behavior.Amazon said it disagreed with the commission's assertions and "will continue to make every effort to ensure it has an accurate understanding of the facts." It said that it represents less than 1% of the global retail market."No company cares more about small businesses or has done more to support them over the past two decades than Amazon," the e-commerce giant said.The commission's second antitrust investigation will look at how the company choses which sellers offer products via Amazon Prime, its paid-for premium service. It will investigate the possible preferential treatment of Amazon's own retail business and those that use its logistics and delivery services (known as "fulfilment by Amazon" sellers) over other sellers.It will also look into the Amazon's "buy box" function, which offers customers a one-click button to add a product to their shopping cart. U.S. regulators and third-party sellers have previously questioned Amazon over which products get placed in the all-important buy box. Amazon maintains that the buy-box features the offer it thinks customers will prefer overall, while factoring in things like price, delivery speed and Prime.Vestager said that, while going through 80 million transactions and 100 million products listed on Amazon marketplace, "it became increasingly clear that there might something that we should look into further on the buy box."The company will have now the chance to examine the commission's conclusions and reply in writing or via an oral hearing.Clarification: The European Commissions has confirmed that its Statement of Objections, published Tuesday, does not constitute legal charges against Amazon.— CNBC's Anne Palmer contributed to this report.

2020/12/01, A rendering of Boom Supersonic's Overture jet.Boom SupersonicAmazon Web Services announced on Tuesday that Boom Supersonic is going 'all-in' as a cloud-computing customer, which the aviation start-up says will power the design, development and manufacturing of its next-generation jet.Boom founder and CEO Blake Scholl told CNBC that the deal with AWS represents his company deepening its relationship with Amazon, with Boom expanding its use of cloud-computing to "new high performance instances" that will "further upgrade our ability to run simulations rapidly and inexpensively.""We've been working with [AWS] behind the scenes for several years, with 53 million compute hours running virtual wind tunnel tests," Scholl said.Boom declined to the specify the length or value of the contract it signed with AWS. But the deal represents one of the first public moves by the Aerospace and Satellite Solutions unit that AWS established in June. The unit is looking to provide services for nearly every sub-sector in the aerospace and space industries, with supersonic aircraft design and manufacturing the latest addition."We are thrilled to be collaborating with Boom to leverage the cloud to launch the next era of travel. By going all-in on AWS, Boom can innovate without bounds and more quickly than was previously possible, to make the world more accessible to everyone," AWS vice president Teresa Carlson said in a statement.The logo of Amazon Web Services (AWS) is seen during the 4th annual America Digital Latin American Congress of Business and Technology in Santiago, Chile, September 5, 2018.Ivan Alvarado | ReutersBoom's Scholl coincidentally began his working career at Amazon about two decades ago as a software engineer. He said he "learned the Amazon ethos of invention and looking to make things faster and better, whatever they are.""Now we're working on a revolution, how we fly at Boom, and it turns out the key to making that happen is the ability to go access basically direct supercomputers on demand, and so that's what we're doing with AWS," Scholl said.In designing Boom's XB-1 demonstrator aircraft, which it unveiled in October and has begun ground testing, the company completed "hundreds of virtual wind tunnel tests" through AWS. Scholl compared that to the supersonic Concorde, which was designed with 12 physical wind tunnel tests."You're able to test literally hundreds of potential different airplane designs in parallel and understand which ones gives you the best lift for the least drag, which ones achieve high speed efficiency, [and smooth handling for safe takeoff and landing," Scholl said. "You'll notice that there's hardly a straight line anywhere on the airplane and every single piece of the aircraft is intricately tailored."Scholl described cloud-computing as "really leveling the playing field between what a start-up can do and what a big company or government can do." Boom's entire workforce is about 150 employees, but without automation Scholl estimates the company "would probably be 10 times bigger than that."The company's XB-1 prototype demonstrator aircraft, unveiled in October 2020.Boom SupersonicBoom's work designing XB-1 is now complete, with the company now preparing to take the test jet to the Mojave Desert in California to "get up in the air and progress towards setting some speed records," Scholl said. Boom is now using AWS to finalize the design of its Overture commercial airline, which Scholl said will "consume 100 million core hours" of computing time. Overture is designed to seat upwards of 65 passengers, with Boom aiming to begin flying the larger jet in a few years and certify it for commercial flights by 2029."Ultimately where we want to get is affordable high-speed flight anywhere in the planet," Scholl said. "We're starting with Overture, a big leap forward from Concorde and twice as fast as anything else flying today, and applicable on any transoceanic route ... There are still regulatory issues of supersonic flight over land, [but initially we'll] tackle about 500 routes on the planet that are primarily over water."Boom has already generated more than 525 terabytes of design and test data with XB-1, which will now move to AWS. And, moving forward with manufacturing in the years to come, Scholl said Boom will use AWS to "coordinate the entire supply chain and how that happens digitally.""We'll know where every single part is in the supply chain, how that's progressing into the factory for assemblies, and then also be able to have that traceability for every single part that goes on the aircraft when it's out in the field," Scholl said.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/10/29, VIDEO1:1401:14Amazon beats top and bottom line in Q3Closing BellAmazon reported better-than-expected third-quarter results after the bell on Thursday, including soaring profits and 37% revenue growth.The stock bounced around in extended trading, falling as much as 2%, after Amazon provided a wide guidance range for the fourth quarter.Earnings: $12.37 vs $7.41 per share expected, according to analysts surveyed by RefinitivRevenue: $96.15 billion vs $92.7 billion expected, according to analysts surveyed by RefinitivAmazon said sales in the fourth quarter will be between $112 billion and $121 billion, which comes out to growth of 28% to 38% from a year earlier. Analysts were expecting revenue of $112.3 billion.The company forecast operating income of $1 billion to $4.5 billion, assuming about $4.0 billion of costs tied to COVID-19. That's a step up from last quarter, when Amazon said it would spend more than $2 billion on coronavirus-related measures.Amazon CFO Brian Olsavsky said on a call with analysts that the largest portion of these costs stem from "continued productivity headwinds" in its warehouses, including enforcing social distancing rules, extended breaks for workers and other steps "to make sure our people are safe and distanced." The costs also include investments in enhanced cleaning and building out testing capabilities."There's productivity drags for things like new hire ramps, social distancing, any break periods, things that we can quantify," Olsavsky said. "This is a change in our process that has hurt productivity."Still, Amazon continues to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of the pandemic, as consumers flock to the site for essential goods, groceries and household items. The cost of shipping those goods to customers rose during the third quarter, with expenses up 57% from a year earlier to $15.1 billion.Amazon is expected to face even greater demand heading into the holiday season, with shoppers likely to do the bulk of their gift buying online instead of making trips to the store."We're seeing more customers than ever shopping early for their holiday gifts, which is just one of the signs that this is going to be an unprecedented holiday season," Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos said in a statement.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsBezos also touted Amazon's recent job creation and treatment of warehouse workers, which has been a subject of scrutiny in recent months. He pointed to Amazon's $15 minimum wage and challenged other large employers to "make the jump to $15."Amazon is one of the few companies that has continued to grow its headcount amid a broader economic downturn due to the coronavirus. The company now counts more than 1.12 million full-time employees across the globe, an increase of 50% year over year. That figure doesn't include Amazon's network of contractors and temporary workers.Amazon's cloud-computing unit, Amazon Web Services, generated sales of $11.6 billion for the quarter, up 29% and in line with analysts' estimates, according to FactSet. Operating income in the segment of $3.54 billion topped estimates of $3.45 billion. The company's "other" category, which primarily consists of its advertising business, saw revenue rise 51% to $5.4 billion. Subscription services, including revenue from Prime memberships, climbed 33% to $6.58 billion.Sales from third-party merchants grew 55%, again outpacing Amazon's first-party business, which increased sales by 38%. Sales fell 10% in Amazon's physical store unit, which includes Whole Foods Market.Amazon shares are up 74% this year, the best performance among the five most valuable U.S. tech companies.Three of those companies — Apple, Alphabet and Facebook — also reported quarterly results after the bell on Thursday and all exceeded analysts' estimates.WATCH: Cramer reacts to Amazon, Alphabet, Apple and Facebook earningsVIDEO3:3303:33Cramer reacts to Amazon, Alphabet, Apple and Facebook earningsMad Money with Jim Cramer

2020/10/28, In this articleAMZNAmazon CEO Jeff BezosAlex Wong | Getty ImagesLONDON — Amazon announced Wednesday that it has launched its first Nordic online store in Sweden as the e-commerce giant looks to expand further across the European continent. Citizens in Sweden will now be able to order products through Amazon.se instead of having to make purchases via Amazon stores in other European countries including the British store (Amazon.co.uk) or the German store (Amazon.de), where they were shown a limited selection of products and incurred high delivery fees.Amazon Vice President for European Expansion, Alex Ootes, said in a statement that Amazon.se will feature over 150 million products including tens of thousands from Swedish businesses."We will continue to work hard to earn the trust of Swedish customers by growing our product range, ensuring low prices, and providing a convenient and trusted shopping experience," said Ootes.In a bid to get as many of Sweden's 10 million sparsely populated inhabitants as possible using Amazon.se, which was confirmed in August, Amazon is offering free delivery on orders over 229 Swedish krona ($25).The launch got off to a bit of a bad start. Amazon used the Argentinian flag instead of the Swedish flag in the "choose your location" section and a frying pan was listed as a woman's item.Amazon was also criticized for wrongly translating some product descriptions. A children's puzzle containing yellow rapeseed flowers, for example, was described as having a "sexual assault flower motif," while a cat-themed hairbrush was described with the Swedish slang word for "vagina.""Many products on Amazon Sweden came from auto-translated listings on other Amazon marketplaces, which enabled it to have a deep catalog on day one, but has unfortunately resulted in many wrong, sometimes comical, and even offensive Swedish translations," wrote Juozas Kaziukenas, founder of e-commerece intelligence firm Marketplace Pulse.In response, Amazon issued a statement saying: "We want to thank everyone for highlighting these issues and helping us make the changes and improve Amazon.se. Whilst we are really excited to have launched Amazon.se today with more than 150 million products, it is only day one for us here in Sweden and we are committed to constantly improving the customer experience."The statement continued: "Therefore, if anyone spots any issues with product pages, please do use the link on the page to provide feedback and we will make the necessary changes."While Amazon.se provides local retailers with a new platform through which to sell their goods and a convenient shopping platform for customers, some Swedes are concerned that Amazon doesn't treat employees fairly and that it could threaten other local firms.One Twitter user wrote: "So Amazon opened in Sweden today. All I say is, why? I see no reason why I would order anything from Amazon when we already have Scandinavian companies that provide better services, better prices and faster shipping."Sweden is the 17th country where Amazon has set up an online store. In Europe, Amazon has set up online stores in the U.K., Germany, France, Italy, Spain, and The Netherlands, where it launched just six months ago.

2020/11/06, Amazon Flex DriverCNBC | Katie SchoolovAmazon is launching a rewards program for its legions of Flex delivery drivers that gives them a leg up when it comes to the app's competitive shift selection process.The company quietly added a section to the Flex website and an app on Apple's App Store that advertise the program, called Amazon Flex Rewards. The rewards program offers drivers a number of perks, including access to a debit card and the ability to reserve customized delivery shifts. "Amazon Flex Rewards is a program exclusively for Amazon Flex delivery partners to thank you for all the work you do," the website states. "With Amazon Flex Rewards, you can earn cash back with the Amazon Flex Debit Card, enjoy Preferred Scheduling and access thousands of discounts as well as tools to navigate things like insurance and taxes."An Amazon spokesperson confirmed to CNBC that it's in the early stages of rolling out the Flex Rewards program to all drivers in the U.S. Amazon Flex operates similarly to Uber, in that contracted delivery drivers pick up shifts on demand to deliver Amazon packages or Whole Foods orders to customers' doorsteps. Since its launch in 2015, the service has grown to operate in more than 50 cities across the U.S. After drivers sign up for the rewards program, they earn points for each delivery they complete. Drivers earn more points depending on their overall standing in the app, which takes into account metrics like on-time delivery rates and delivery completions. As drivers earn more points, they're able to "level up" and access new perks, like cash-back rewards on purchases made with the Flex Debit Card, a new debit card exclusively for contracted delivery drivers that's linked to a no-fee banking account provided by online bank Green Dot. Amazon is launching a rewards program for Flex drivers, which includes access to the Flex Debit Card.For example, they can earn up to 6% cash back on fuel purchases and 2% on amazon.com and Whole Foods Market purchases. The fuel discounts should be a helpful perk for Flexers, who use their own cars to make deliveries and are responsible for costs like gas and tolls.A tool to increase loyaltyThe "preferred scheduling" feature is likely to ease some of the stress that comes with nabbing a shift. It could also encourage Flex drivers to spend more of their time working for Amazon, rather than other competing platforms like Uber, Instacart or Lyft.Like other app-based work, drivers use the Flex app to schedule and sign up for shifts, known as "blocks," which typically range from three to six hours. After they log in, drivers have to repeatedly tap a refresh button until blocks appear on the screen.The "preferred scheduling" feature will give drivers in the rewards program a greater advantage in the shift selection process. Once drivers accrue 650 points, they're able to reserve shifts that are tailored to their preferred delivery station, day of the week and time of day. When a shift pops up in the Flex app, drivers typically have a few seconds to swipe on the block and tap "Accept," but with the rewards program, they can secure up to 30 minutes of extra time to accept a reserved shift.The Flex shift selection process is notoriously competitive. Workers only have a few seconds to claim a shift before it's taken, and some drivers have come to rely on bots to secure blocks faster. The "preferred scheduling" feature lets drivers reserve shifts customized on their preference.Drivers may use the "preferred scheduling" feature to grab Whole Foods, Prime Now and AmazonFresh orders before their competitors can. These blocks are considered more valuable than other jobs because customers can add a tip to their order, unlike package deliveries.By launching rewards like these, Amazon could be looking to incentivize more drivers to work for Flex. It's common for gig workers to use more than one app each day as a strategy to maximize their earnings.For example, if drivers must complete more Flex deliveries to earn points, they might spend less time completing trips for Uber or picking up Instacart shifts."It does seem like a system to get workers to be skilled and dedicate more time to the job, without treating them as employees," said Erin Hatton, an associate professor of sociology and labor expert at the University of Buffalo.Uber and Lyft already offer their drivers access to debit cards with cash back rewards and other features, like "instant pay" services that let them access their earnings in real time. Pay advance services have become increasingly popular in the gig economy as many workers in the industry struggle to make ends meet. Amazon's Flex Debit Card doesn't offer drivers advanced pay services, however.Scott Dueringer, a driver for Flex, Lyft and other gig services in Florida, said he uses the Lyft Direct debit card to take advantage of cash back rewards and the instant pay service.Dueringer said he'd likely "take a look" at the Flex Debit Card once it becomes available, since the Lyft card has helped him categorize some of the expenses involved with being an independent contractor."I look at the rewards as just a little extra income," he added.VIDEO15:2315:23As Prime One Day shipping expands, here's what it's like to be an Amazon Flex delivery driverTech

2020/10/06, In this articleAMZNJeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon, pictured on Oct. 2, 2019.Elif Ozturk | Anadolu Agency | Getty ImagesAmazon has "significant and durable market power" in the U.S. online retail market, with a far higher market share than was previously estimated, the House Judiciary antitrust subcommittee's Democratic leadership found in a sweeping 400-plus page report published Tuesday.In the report, which also examined Apple, Google and Facebook's business practices, lawmakers argue Amazon has grown to be such a dominant force in the online retail market that it now has monopoly power over third-party sellers on its marketplace. The report recommended a wide range of remedies, including splitting different business units and forcing companies to prove mergers would be pro-competitive before allowing them to conclude. In Amazon's case, for instance, the company could be required to split apart its core e-commerce site from the third-party marketplace where independent vendors sell their products, and from the Amazon Web Services cloud-computing service. The committee's report bucked industry figures estimating Amazon's controlling share of the e-commerce market. They said Amazon likely controls about 50% or more of the U.S. online retail market, which is higher than researcher eMarketer's estimate of 38%. Amazon has stifled competition in other areas than retail, lawmakers found. They concluded that Amazon's role as a dominant provider of cloud-computing services and its power in other markets creates a conflict of interest that "Amazon has the incentive and ability to exploit." Amazon has also imposed barriers to entry for other voice-enabled device manufacturers by pricing its Alexa-enabled products below cost, lawmakers said. Amazon also operates more than 150 fulfillment centers, sortation centers and delivery stations, along with a sprawling network of planes, vans and contracted delivery drivers. This combination has allowed Amazon to ship a growing number number of products itself, rivaling UPS and FedEx, and serves as one of several barriers to entry for competitors. The "steep costs" associated with building a logistics network that's comparable in size to what Amazon has built makes "a challenger to Amazon unlikely," they said.SEE ALSO: Facebook is a social network monopoly that buys, copies or kills competitors, antitrust committee findsApple’s ‘monopoly power’ over iPhone app distribution gives it outsized profits, Democrats sayGoogle 'overwhelmingly' dominates search market, antitrust committee statesAmazon disputed the lawmakers' findings, saying that their recommendations would reduce competition, forcing "millions of independent retailers out of online stores" and resulting in less choice and higher prices for consumers."All large organizations attract the attention of regulators, and we welcome that scrutiny. But large companies are not dominant by definition, and the presumption that success can only be the result of anti-competitive behavior is simply wrong," the company said. "And yet, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary, those fallacies are at the core of this regulatory spit-balling on antitrust."Amazon-phobiaIn some cases, the threat of competing with Amazon can push start-ups to avoid certain industries entirely.One unnamed venture capital investor in the cloud market told lawmakers: "I think of Amazon as the sun. It is useful but also dangerous. If you're far enough away you can bask. If you get too close you'll get incinerated. So, you have to be far enough from Amazon and be doing something that they wouldn't do. If you're a net consumer of Amazon's infrastructure, like Uber, then you're okay. As long as Amazon doesn't want to get into ridesharing. But it's hard to predict what Amazon wants to get into. If they were going to stop at retail and computing, you're safe. But you can't know."Lawmakers also found direct evidence that Amazon viewed Zappos and Quidsi as "competitive threats prior to acquiring them," citing documents reviewed by subcommittee staff.Before Amazon acquired Zappos in 2009, it referred to the online shoe retailer as one of the "primary competitors" of Amazon's now-defunct fashion website Endless.com. Zappos gave Endless access to "hold-out" brands that previously "refused to sell on Amazon.com" or Endless, lawmakers said. Similarly, Amazon sought to acquire Quidsi in 2010 after it engaged in an "aggressive price war" to weaken its subsidiary Diapers.com, which was a competitor to Amazon.Third-party sellers describe bullyingAmazon's third-party marketplace, made up of millions of merchants, has become a critical part of Amazon's e-commerce business. The marketplace now accounts for more than half of Amazon's overall sales. It has been a focus of antitrust investigators in the U.S. and abroad, who believe Amazon uses its power to squeeze the merchants that sell on its platform. Lawmakers concluded that Amazon's dual role selling products on its own web site and running a marketplace for third-party sellers "creates an inherent conflict of interest" that encourages Amazon to exploit its access to competing sellers' data and information. It noted that Amazon publicly describes these sellers as "partners," but "behind closed doors, the company refers to them as 'internal competitors.'"Third-party sellers described a pervasive environment of "bullying," wherein the threat of financial burden that comes with an account suspension or product de-listing causes some sellers to "live in fear of the company."VIDEO6:1306:13Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos questioned over use of third-party seller dataTechThird-party merchants told the subcommittee that they're often left without any recourse after their account has been shut down. When sellers have to appeal an issue with Amazon, they face such "atrocious levels of customer service" that often they resort to a "Jeff Bomb," or an email to CEO Jeff Bezos "to plead their case.""For sellers, Amazon functions as a 'quasistate,' and many '[s]ellers are more worried about a case being opened on Amazon than in actual court,'" lawmakers said. Amazon's own documents show that it manipulates its all-important buy box algorithm "to do what is best for Amazon's bottom line, not customers" lawmakers said. The buy box offers customers a one-click button to add a listed product to their shopping cart or buy it. This directly contradicts Amazon's previous explanation for how the buy box works. Amazon has maintained that the buy box predicts the price consumers would most likely choose after reviewing competing products elsewhere.Amazon also employs "strong-arm tactics" in negotiations with vendors who sell directly to the company, lawmakers said. The report references an exchange with an unnamed company, wherein Amazon leveraged its e-commerce dominance to force acceptance of certain terms and conditions. During negotiations, Amazon "repeatedly referenced" its ability to destock the unnamed company's products on as a "bargaining chip to force terms" that were "unrelated to retail distribution." Alexa like 'a shark on a surfboard'Lawmakers argued that Amazon's scope, acquisitions, and pricing strategy have given it an unfair advantage in the voice enabled assistant market. Amazon's Alexa Voice Service, which enables hardware makers to make their devices compatible with Amazon's Alexa digital assistant, is hosted on AWS, "allowing it to bind products and developers to its cloud platform." This may also give Amazon a "potential head-start" in converting those Alexa partners into customers of AWS or other Amazon services in the future," they said. Amazon has expanded Alexa's ecosystem quickly through acquisitions of complementary and competing technology, lawmakers said. Internal emails between Amazon executives revealed that Amazon sought to control both the "eyes and ears," with the "ears" referring to its Alexa ecosystem. Smart device makers Blink and Ring, which Amazon acquired in 2017 and 2018, respectively, would serve as "Amazon's 'eyes' right outside the home," the report said. The company also favors Amazon services with default voice commands on Alexa devices, including AmazonBasics and Prime Music, and users must go out of their way to voice shop on other stores, lawmakers said. When it comes to its online marketplace, Amazon acts as a "gatekeeper" against competitors, using the threat of delisting a competitor's product to "ensure that Alexa is enabled on other company's devices, or to secure favorable contractual terms."Democrats concluded that Amazon uses a "predatory pricing strategy to increase its sales of smart home devices by pricing its products below cost." This strategy has created "significant" barriers to entry for companies looking to compete in the voice enabled assistant market and even created challenges for fellow tech giant Google. In a 2018 email, one Google employee remarked that "fighting Amazon with a very-hard-to-differentiate product and a channel disadvantage and a huge economic disadvantage (due to channel mix margin differences) is already like fighting a shark on a surfboard."AWS lock-inAWS is more profitable than the rest of Amazon, and that profit from the cloud business allows Amazon to keep funding its business, the subcommittee said. Amazon leads the cloud-infrastructure market. The subcommittee found evidence suggested that AWS sought to build on its leadership position and keep existing customers from going elsewhere.More people know how to use Amazon's cloud than other clouds, making it easier to choose Amazon and harder to leave, and the high cost of migrating to other clouds helps AWS maintain its strength, the subcommittee asserted. Amazon also charges customers when they went to send data out of AWS, and people told the subcommittee that "they view these fees less as a cost for Amazon to transport data and more as friction imposed by Amazon for switching providers." Because Amazon is dominant in cloud computing and other markets, the company has a conflict of interest it can take advantage of, the subcommittee said.AWS' has built services based on open-source projects such as Elasticsearch and MongoDB that compete with services built by the companies that first developed those open-source software projects. These services, including AWS' DocumentDB database service that draws on MongoDB, could wind up locking customers into AWS, the subcommittee argued."When a cloud customer chooses to build an application using DocumentDB they are tied to AWS's infrastructure," the report said. "If they ever wanted to switch to another provider they would have to extensively re-engineer their product in another software, whereas, had they built their application using MongoDB — on AWS or any other cloud provider's infrastructure — their applications could move to other platforms." MongoDB and other software companies responded by changing the licenses on their open-source libraries. People told the committee they thought the license changes could lead to lesser access to innovative software for groups that lack abundant financial resources. Many people think AWS makes more from their versions of open-source software than third-party providers, the report said.VIDEO1:2101:21House antitrust subcommittee releases recommendations for Big TechClosing Bell

2020/11/19, Amazon Echo FramesTodd Haselton | CNBCAmazon's glasses that let you talk to Alexa are now available for anyone to purchase.The new Echo Frames cost $249.99 and will ship Dec. 10. Amazon launched the Frames at its annual hardware event last year as part of its lineup of "Day 1" products, but they were only available to consumers on an invitation-only basis.Amazon introduced improvements to the second-generation Echo Frames based on feedback from invite-only users.Among the updates are up to 40% longer battery life, an auto off feature to maximize battery life when the glasses aren't in use, an upgraded "VIP Filter," which now not only lets users prioritize notifications from certain apps and contacts, but also calendar alerts and group messages, as well as an "Auto Volume" feature that automatically adjusts the device's volume based on the noise level of a user's surrounding environment. Echo Frames also come in three new colors: modern tortoise, horizon blue and classic black.The lenses are clear but Amazon said customers can get prescription lenses put in at a LensCrafters store.Users who purchased the first-generation Echo Frames via invitation will be able to purchase the upgraded version for $70, Amazon said. An Amazon spokesperson declined to say how many users bought the Echo Frames as part of the invite-only program.While the Echo Frames are "graduating" to a full launch, Amazon said it's sunsetting another "Day 1 Edition" product, the Echo Loop ring. The Echo Loop, also launched last year, was a titanium ring that let users talk to Alexa.Customers who bought the Echo Loop will continue to receive updates and support for the device, Amazon said.VIDEO2:3302:33Amazon launches online pharmacy in the United StatesSquawk Box

2020/10/29, Attendees at Amazon.com Inc annual cloud computing conference walk past the Amazon Web Services logo in Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S., November 30, 2017.Salvador Rodriguez | ReutersAmazon's cloud business increased revenue by 29% in the third quarter as demand for products that rely on it, such as Slack and Zoom, remained high during the coronavirus pandemic.Amazon Web Services continues to rule the market for cloud infrastructure, with 45% share in 2019, technology research company Gartner estimated. Schools, governments, start-ups and large companies use computing, storage and networking tools from AWS to operate their websites and applications.In the third quarter AWS revenue totaled $11.60 billion, which is just short of the FactSet consensus estimate of $11.61 billion, Amazon said on Thursday. Revenue growth is consistent with the 29% growth in the second quarter.Companies that want to cut costs can do that by going to the cloud, and AWS is helping existing customers save money by refining workloads to make the most of cloud resources, Brian Olsavsky, Amazon's chief financial officer, told analysts on a conference call.Amazon's closest competitor is Microsoft's Azure. Microsoft provides quarterly revenue growth rates for Azure but doesn't disclose Azure revenue in dollars. Analysts at Mizuho and William Blair estimated $6.3 billion in third-quarter Azure revenue, which would amount to 54% of AWS revenue during the same period.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAWS generated $3.54 billion in operating income, up 56% and more than the $3.45 billion FactSet consensus. The segment had a 30.5% operating margin, compared with 31.1% in the second quarter.Around 57% of Amazon's operating income came from AWS in the third quarter, and Amazon derived 12% of its revenue from AWS. Earlier this month Democratic staff members of the U.S. House Judiciary antitrust subcommittee said in a 449-page report that market participants had expressed concern that "Amazon uses its high and steady profits from AWS" to help fund less profitable parts of its business.Continuing a shift that emerged in the second quarter, Amazon grew other portions of its business faster than AWS in the third quarter. North America revenue increased by 39%, and international revenue rose 37%. All of Amazon grew 37%, making AWS the laggard.In the third quarter AWS introduced a tool customers can use to run live video streams that resemble those on the Amazon-owned Twitch service. It said for the first time it would hold its annual Reinvent customer conference online instead of in Las Vegas, because of the pandemic. The show will run from Nov. 30 to Dec. 18.Also in the quarter the Pentagon said that after reevaluating proposals from Amazon and Microsoft, it would stick with Microsoft for the Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure, or JEDI, contract that could be worth up to $10 billion. Amazon continues to protest the Pentagon's decision in federal court.WATCH: Amazon adds retired general Keith Alexander to its board of directorsVIDEO0:4800:48Amazon adds retired general Keith Alexander to its board of directorsClosing Bell

2020/10/29, A truck pulling an Amazon Prime branded cargo container waits beside the entrance gate at Amazon.com Inc.'s new fulfillment center in Kolbaskowo, Poland, on Friday, Feb. 16, 2018.Bartek Sadowski | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon's fourth-quarter guidance for operating profit was so wide you could drive a delivery truck through it.The online retailer said in its earnings report on Thursday that operating income for the last three months of the year will be between $1 billion and $4.5 billion. That incorporates roughly $4 billion of costs tied to Covid-19 for things like testing, cleaning, extending employee breaks and social distancing measures.That $3.5 billion difference between the high and low end of the guidance range leaves a lot for investors to consider. Last year, Amazon baked a $1.7 billion gap into its fourth-quarter operating profit forecast. In 2018, the difference was $1.5 billion.Chief Financial Officer Brian Olsavsky said on the call with analysts that every fourth quarter carries uncertainties because of the holidays and volatile weather patterns. It's by far the biggest period of the year for the company by revenue, and this year is expected to be Amazon's first quarter ever to surpass $100 billion in sales.But the end of 2020 is particularly unpredictable. Prime Day, Amazon's annual mega-shopping event, was pushed back from July to October this year as the company adjusted to the strains of the coronavirus. The election is next week, and control of the White House and Senate are up in the air. Facebook and Walmart are even predicting possible civil unrest around the election results, which may take a long time to be finalized. The economy grew at its fastest pace ever in the third quarter, but coming off the worst quarter in history."There's a whole host of conditions that generally come to bear in Q4," Olsavsky said. "I think the fact that Covid is dwarfing all of those is causing a lot of uncertainty."VIDEO3:3303:33Cramer reacts to Amazon, Alphabet, Apple and Facebook earningsMad Money with Jim CramerAmazon shares dipped almost 2% in extended trading even though the company reported better-than-expected revenue and profit. Amazon said sales in the fourth quarter will be between $112 billion and $121 billion, compared to analysts' average estimate of $112.3 billion, according to FactSet. Analysts were expecting operating profit of $5.8 billion.Olsavsky reeled off a number of areas where Amazon is investing, primarily to meet consumer demand. The company continues to open up facilities and bolster its transportation capacity. It's also rapidly hiring, bringing on 100,000 people in October alone. He said Covid-related costs will rise from $2.5 billion in the third quarter to $4 billion in the fourth period.There were also savings, including $1 billion on travel so far this year and lower marketing expenses, Olsavsky said. But they're not enough to offset the added costs, he added."Once the pandemic is over and hopefully that's soon, these should be costs that don't recur," Olsavsky said.WATCH: Amazon CFO says holiday shopping capacity will be tight industry-wideVIDEO1:4101:41Amazon CFO says holiday shopping capacity will be tight industry-wideClosing Bell

2020/12/17, VIDEO4:2104:21New England Patriots' Brandon Copeland on his nonprofit that helps underserved families and childrenHalftime ReportIt's the season of giving — and New England Patriots linebacker Brandon Copeland is doing his part.This holiday season, he got together with 19 other current and former NFL players to surprise 200 underserved families each with $800 Amazon gift cards. The total giveaway: $160,000.The players are "guys who we are literally competing against every Sunday, Monday, and Thursday — sometimes Tuesday — in these Covid games," Copeland said in an interview on CNBC's Halftime Report Thursday."We are trying to give back and put smiles on people's faces to end this unprecedented year."More from Invest in You:Year-end tax moves aren't just for the rich. How to lower your billMellody Hobson, new Starbucks' board chair, champions financial literacy7 money moves to make now to start the new year strongCopeland, who was sidelined with an injury this season, is no stranger to giving back. His non-profit organization, Beyond the Basics, hosts a youth football camp and other events for those in need. It is also donated funds to help get food on the table during the pandemic.Last year, Copeland took more than 300 underprivileged children on a holiday shopping spree. This year, he had to adjust for Covid. The event, a partnership with Amazon, The NFL Foundation and Zebra Technologies, went all virtual."In the virtual space, you feel like you lose a bit of connection, but we were actually able to get to know the families that we were working with this year more than we were were in the past," said Copeland, who has been named one of CNBC + Acorn's Homegrown Heroes. He is also a member of the CNBC Invest in You Financial Wellness Council.SEATTLE, WASHINGTON - SEPTEMBER 20: Brandon Copeland #52 of the New England Patriots looks on before their game against the Seattle Seahawks.Abbie Parr | Getty Images Sport | Getty Images"[We] really got to find out what this means to each of the families and get to know their stories," he said.Copeland, who was also recently named to the Forbes 30 under 30 sports list, was nominated to be a Homegrown Hero by former NFL player Joel Gamble, who also has a nonprofit foundation that focuses helping underserved student athletes. Gamble has taken part in Copeland's holiday shopping sprees for the past two years."In the Baltimore city community, we were able to bless several families affected by Covid-19 directly, as well as displaced families in shelters," Gamble said.We are trying to give back and put smiles on people's faces to end this unprecedented year.Brandon CopelandNFL linebacker"The overwhelming joy it brought to see families' excitement and emotions of tears ... was unbelievable," he said. "I am so extremely proud of Brandon."Copeland, who said the recovery from his injury is going great and is well ahead of schedule, also spends his time helping others learn about money.He teaches a Life 101 course at the University of Pennsylvania and recently teamed up with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to shed light on some of the available resources available during the pandemic."It is never too late and never too early to start planning, start saving, start figuring out how you can take your current environment and how you can build it forward, " Copeland has said.VIDEO4:2604:26Patriots' Copeland on money management: Pay off debt, find new long-term investmentsHalftime ReportSIGN UP: Money 101 is an 8-week learning course to financial freedom, delivered weekly to your inbox.CHECK OUT: Suze Orman: Don't pay off debt with a second stimulus check — here's your 'first priority' via Grow with Acorns+CNBC.Disclosure: NBCUniversal and Comcast Ventures are investors in Acorns.

2020/10/14, In this articleAMZNAmazon workers at Amazon's Staten Island warehouse strike in demand that the facility be shut down and cleaned after one staffer tested positive for the coronavirus on March 30, 2020 in New York.Angela Weiss | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon warehouse workers claim the company has resumed tracking their productivity on the job, putting them at greater risk of being exposed to the coronavirus, according to a court filing submitted Wednesday.Three employees at Amazon's Staten Island facility, known as JFK8, filed a lawsuit against Amazon in June, alleging the company made the facility a "place of danger" by impeding efforts to stop the spread of the virus and prioritizing productivity over safety. In the latest filing, the employees said Amazon reinstated its policies known as "rate" and "time off task" at JFK8 on Oct. 7, despite the company's previous claim that it wouldn't enforce those policies out of concern for their safety during the pandemic. "Amazon has reassured the court that it has put into place numerous protocols — like contact tracing, prompt and full paid Covid-19 leave and modifications to productivity policies — in order to ensure a safe working environment at JFK8," said Karla Gilbride, one of the attorneys representing the workers, in a letter to the judge overseeing their case. "But as this (undisclosed) rollback of the productivity feedback suspension shows, Amazon has not been honest and forthcoming with plaintiffs, or this court."Amazon tracks the number of "time off tasks" workers log each day as a measure of productivity. If workers take a break from scanning packages for too long, Amazon's internal systems will log it as a TOT and generate a warning, which can later lead to firings. Amazon spokesperson Rachael Lighty told CNBC in a statement that the company's performance expectations ensure workers have additional time to sanitize their workspace, wash their hands and practice social distancing, as needed. "We have reinstated a portion of our process where a fraction of employees, less than 5% on average, may receive coaching for improvement as a result of extreme outliers in performance," Lighty said.The company had said in previous court filings that it wouldn't discipline employees for falling short of productivity quotas. It said it "ceased providing productivity rate feedback to associates and imposing any discipline related to low productivity rates" in March, and extended the policy indefinitely in April. But earlier this month, one JFK8 worker was given "verbal coaching" by their manager and told that disciplinary action for low rates would resume because "Amazon needed its employees to work faster during peak season," according to the latest employee lawsuit filing. Additionally, a message on a whiteboard in the facility instructed employees of their rate goal, noting that productivity feedback would resume Oct. 7, the filing said.Amazon's "peak" season is expected to be busier than ever this year, with Prime Day and the holiday shopping period occurring back to back. Peak season typically refers to the week before Black Friday through Christmas, during which warehouses are fully staffed and employees are required to work overtime. Amazon's Prime Day, which started Tuesday and ends Wednesday, will add an extra month onto peak season.Amazon has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the pandemic-fueled rush to online shopping and Prime Day is expected to be just as lucrative for the company. eMarketer estimated Prime Day sales could hit close to $10 billion.JFK8 workers said they're concerned that the beginning of peak season has given Amazon a pass to forgo necessary coronavirus safety measures like suspending productivity feedback. "Amazon is now treating the pandemic – and the need for measures to protect workers' health and wellbeing – as a thing of the past," said Gilbride, a senior attorney Public Justice, which joined several labor advocacy groups in filing the lawsuit on behalf of workers.Workers have also questioned whether Amazon fully stopped providing productivity feedback during the pandemic like it said it would. Hibaq Mohamed, an Amazon warehouse worker in Minnesota, said in July that she was written up for logging too many time off tasks. Mohamed also claimed she was written up in retaliation for speaking out against the company's labor practices, an allegation that Amazon denied.VIDEO3:4803:48Prime Day this year kicks off the holidays in the U.S. and around the globe: AnalystSquawk Alley

2020/11/17, The FDA has recently increased the list of recalled hand sanitzers for containing methanol.Frederic J. Brown | AFP | Getty ImagesThree Amazon sellers have been fined by New York Attorney General Letitia James after they were discovered to be price gouging hand sanitizer.Between February and March, third-party merchants Mobile Rush, EMC Group and Northwest-Lux sold more than 1,000 units of hand sanitizer on Amazon's marketplace "at prices that grossly exceeded the price at which the same or similar products were readily obtainable" elsewhere, the New York Attorney General's office said Tuesday.For example, Northwest-Lux charged Amazon shoppers $79.99 to $129.99 for 2-liter bottles of Purell, which are typically priced between $20.87 to $35.00, the attorney general's office said. In another case, Mobile Rush charged consumers $19.99 to $29.99 for single, 8-ounce bottles bottles of Germ-X hand sanitizer, which is higher than their standard price of $1 to $3.It comes as Amazon and other retailers have struggled to curb third-party sellers who overcharged for products that spiked in demand during the pandemic. Sellers inflated prices for hand sanitizer, face masks and hazmat suits, among other products. In March, CNBC found examples of face masks being sold for as much as $195.U.S. senators and attorneys general have called on the company to do more to curb coronavirus price gouging. A group of 33 state attorneys general urged Amazon to take on strong policies to deter price gouging.Amazon said it has removed more than 1 million high-priced offers and suspended tens of thousands of sellers for attempted price gouging. The company has also voiced support for a federal price gouging law.As part of the crackdown carried out by the office of the attorney general, the sellers will pay the state of New York more than $52,000 in penalties and reimburse consumers nearly $23,000 for overcharging for hand sanitizer during the pandemic. The actions against the third-party sellers are part of its broader investigation into price gouging during the Covid-19 pandemic, the office said."Instead of ensuring individuals could protect themselves from the coronavirus, these businesses operated with dirty hands by charging exorbitant prices on hand sanitizer and other cleansing products," James said in a statement. "My office will continue to clean up this unlawful practice by using all of the tools at our disposal to prevent price gouging during this pandemic."An Amazon spokesperson told CNBC in a statement that the company doesn't allow price gouging in its store. They added that the company continues to report bad actors to law enforcement, as well as remove offers and suspend selling accounts that violate its policies."We are grateful that the New York Attorney General's office has continued to pursue this case and will hold these bad actors accountable," the spokesperson said.Mobile Rush, EMC Group and Northwest-Lux didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.VIDEO2:3302:33Amazon launches online pharmacy in the United StatesSquawk Box

2020/10/13, In this articleAMZNAmazon vans line up at a distribution center to pick up packages for delivery on Amazon Prime Day, July 16, 2019, in Orlando, Florida.Paul Hennessy | NurPhoto | Getty ImagesLONDON — Amazon workers are striking in Germany on Prime Day, which is usually one of busiest days of the year for the e-commerce giant.Warehouse workers in the German cities of Leipzig, Bad Hersfeld, Rheinberg, Werne, Graben and Koblenz are due to take part in the strike, which is being organized by German labor union ver.di.A spokesperson for Amazon told CNBC that customers will still get their orders on time and that the strikes will have no impact on Amazon's delivery promise.The strike, taking place on Tuesday and Wednesday, is happening because the union and its members think Amazon workers deserve better pay, working conditions and more respect.While the exact number of protesters is unknown, ver.di Union Secretary Andre Scheer said he thinks thousands of staff will take part.Many Amazon customers wait until Prime Day arrives before ordering products they want from the platform. With discounts available across the board, it's an opportunity to grab a bargain. As buyers rush to Amazon to make purchases, the company's warehouses are more busy than usual."Today our teams, are doing what they do every day — delivering for their customers in an environment that's fun, engaging and set-up to help them succeed," an Amazon spokesperson said. "The fact is we already offer excellent pay, excellent benefits and excellent opportunities for career growth, all while working in a safe, modern work environment.""At Amazon, these benefits and opportunities come with the job, as does the ability to communicate directly with the leadership of the company," they added.Ver.di said in a press release that it is also concerned about the "spying" tactics that Amazon is allegedly using to clamp down on labor activists. Amazon deleted two job postings for "intelligence analysts" in September. According to the postings, the jobs involved monitoring various threats perceived by Amazon including trade unions and "hostile political leaders.""It is unacceptable for a company to flout the law," said Orhan Akman, ver.di national specialist for the retail and mail-order sector.Members of the European Parliament wrote to Amazon boss Jeff Bezos on Oct. 7 asking if his company is hiring intelligence agents to spy on politicians, trade unionists, and members of staff.At the time, an Amazon spokesperson said: "The job post was not an accurate description of the role — it was made in error and has since been corrected."Christy Hoffman, general secretary of the UNI Global Union, said in a statement: "Amazon workers in Germany and everywhere are fighting for better pay and decent working conditions, but they also expect to keep their constitutional rights intact and have private conversations without Big Brother watching over as they organize online."Hoffman added: "Amazon has failed to ensure workers' safety, and we fear that influx of orders and the grueling Prime Day pace will make a bad situation even worse."An Amazon spokesperson disputed Hoffman's claim. "Today, we are anything but complacent and continue to innovate, learn, and improve the measures we have in place to protect our teams," they said. "This in addition to supplying masks, gloves, thermal cameras, thermometers, disinfectant spraying in buildings, increased janitorial teams, additional handwashing stations, hand sanitizer, sanitizing wipes, and piloting Covid testing at many of our sites."Amazon workers in Germany went on strike in June after staff at several logistics centers tested positive for the coronavirus.Similar strikes have also taken place in the U.S., where Amazon clamped down hard and fired workers. In May, Amazon VP Tim Bray quit "in dismay" at the firm's crackdown. In a blog post, the Amazon Web Services engineer said the firing of protesters was evidence of "a vein of toxicity running through the company culture."

2020/12/01, In this articleAAPLFBAMZNNFLXGOOGLVIDEO3:2003:20Cramer sees year-end rally in Apple, Amazon stocksMad Money with Jim CramerCNBC's Jim Cramer on Tuesday doubled down on his forecast that Big Tech stocks have more upside in store as the market steers toward the end of the year.Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet shares, some of Wall Street's hottest trades of 2020, have lagged the broader market in recent weeks as major indexes rose to new highs.Cramer, with the help of wisdom from a trusted analyst, is forecasting these stocks will trend higher, potentially staging double-digit rallies to close out the year."If the FAANG stocks can stay on the market's good side, then the charts, as interpreted by Carolyn Boroden, suggest they have a lot more room to run," the "Mad Money" host said.Boroden, a chart analyst who runs FibonacciQueen.com and is a contributor at RealMoney.com, utilizes what's known as Fibonacci numbers to study past stock swings and chart future moves. The analyst sees promising moves for FAANG if each stock can hold above their November lows, Cramer explained.On Monday, Cramer spoke out against the market rotation out of the fast-growing stocks — those that led the major averages to new highs after a massive market sell-off in early 2020 from the pandemic shutdown —  and into other opportunities in small-cap and cyclical stocks. Investors have adjusted their portfolios to account for economic recovery as drug researchers see promising progress on coronavirus vaccines.Technical analysis is useful when fundamentals are unclear, Cramer said."I think she's right. This is the point on the calendar when money managers crowd into the year's biggest winners to show their clients how smart they are," he said. "That means winners like Facebook, like Amazon, like Apple, like Netflix, and of course, you know, I think Google, should keep winning, at least for the next four weeks."Boroden, according to Cramer, mapped out these potential runs for the companies if their stocks can hold above key levels:FacebookKey support level: $264Price targets: $306, $342 on the high endZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAppleKey support level: $112.59Price targets: $127, $147 on the high endZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsAmazonKey support level: $2,950.12Price targets: $3,461, $3,737 on the high endZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsNetflixKey support level: $463.91Long-term price target: $603Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsVIDEO9:3509:35Jim Cramer: Charts show more upside for Facebook, Apple, Amazon and NetflixMad Money with Jim CramerDisclosure: Cramer's charitable owns shares of Facebook, Amazon, Apple and Alphabet.DisclaimerQuestions for Cramer? Call Cramer: 1-800-743-CNBCWant to take a deep dive into Cramer's world? Hit him up! Mad Money Twitter - Jim Cramer Twitter - Facebook - InstagramQuestions, comments, suggestions for the "Mad Money" website? madcap@cnbc.com

2020/11/19, In this articlePDFSJin Lee | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesOut on Wall Street, stocks are taking a breather from this month's rally. Despite encouraging updates on a potential coronavirus vaccine, disappointing unemployment data and a spike in coronavirus cases have spooked investors.Not helping investor sentiment, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that schools would return to remote learning to mitigate the virus' spread."The market has really been in a celebratory mode since Election Day and rode through it again last week. I think the idea now is people are beginning to consider taking some profits ahead of expectations that taxes related to capital gains could rise in 2021. I also think there's the consideration of the transition in COVID to post-COVID... Even with the resurgence, all the vaccine news tells us [is] there is a post-COVID ahead," Oppenheimer's Chief Investment Strategist John Stoltzfus noted.As plenty of question marks remain going forward, spotting stocks poised to outperform the broader market isn't easy. One approach is to take a cue from the analysts with a proven track record of success. TipRanks analyst forecasting service attempts to pinpoint Wall Street's best-performing analysts. These are the analysts with the highest success rate and average return per rating.Here are the best-performing analysts' five favorite stocks right now:AmazonIn response to the promising data on Pfizer and Moderna's coronavirus vaccines, investors have shifted away from the pandemic beneficiaries such as Amazon. However, five-star analyst Laura Martin continues to take a bullish stance on the e-commerce and computing giant. To this end, she reiterated a Buy rating and $3,700 price target (19% upside potential) on November 18.Following the vaccine news, Martin conducted a survey to gauge consumer shopping habits and upcoming plans. Surveying roughly 330 consumers, 80% of respondents stated they would shop the same or more online post-pandemic. "With AMZN being the e-commerce market share leader, we see it as the biggest beneficiary of this trend," she commented.When Martin asked if their shopping habits would change when a vaccine becomes available, about 69% indicated they'd use Amazon the same as they did during the pandemic, which is when Amazon's demand spiked, while another 15% said they would shop on the site even more.As for the upcoming holiday season, the analyst wanted to find out when consumers would do their shopping. Of those surveyed, 44% stated that 50%-100% of their holiday shopping had already been completed."In our view, Amazon's Prime Day in October pulled forward the shopping calendar. Given it had first mover advantage, we expect AMZN be the largest beneficiary of spending moving earlier on the calendar," Martin explained.With a 66% success rate and 24.9% average return per rating, Martin scores the #67 position on TipRanks' list of best-performing analysts.Bentley SystemsFive-star analyst Matthew Hedberg of RBC Capital upgraded software development company Bentley Systems to Buy from Hold on November 15. With the price target standing at $43, the analyst sees 26% upside potential.The upgrade comes on the heels of an impressive performance in its first quarter as a publicly traded company. This combined with a pull-back since the middle of October makes the risk/reward profile much more attractive, in Hedberg's opinion, as shares now trade "closer to peers and a discount to premium peers such as Ansys and Autodesk."During the quarter, Bentley generated revenue and EPS of $203 million and $0.17, respectively, versus the $197.3 million and $0.13 consensus estimates. Additionally, adjusted EBITDA landed at $73.6 million, handily beating the Street's $56.5 million call. Most noteworthy for Hedberg, though, was the 9% ARR growth, which exceeded his 8% projection.Looking ahead, Bentley's guidance for CY20 also came in above the consensus estimate.Hedberg added, "Overall, we think a vaccine could benefit Bentley, and a Biden presidency could boost U.S. infrastructure spending. Overall, we like the opportunity to own a long-term durable winner."Landing a Top 25 spot on TipRanks' ranking, Hedberg boasts a 74% success rate and a 27.2% average return per rating.PDF SolutionsOn November 17, PDF Solutions announced that it will acquire Cimetrix, which is a software interface company for capital equipment that enables data collection from manufacturing tools. For top Northland Capital's Gus Richard, this deal reaffirms his bullish thesis, with the analyst reiterating a Buy rating the following day. Along with the call, he continues to assign a $30 price target, suggesting 43% upside potential.As per the terms of the agreement, PDFS will pay $35 million in cash, net of cash on Cimetrix's balance sheet, with the deal set to close in Q4 2020.The move is part of PDF Solutions' focus on accelerating its effort with equipment suppliers as Cimetrix provides a sales channel to the software development teams at equipment vendors, with the Cimetrix data serving as "the feedstock to PDFS's Exensio big data analytics platform," in Richard's opinion. PDF's platform has penetrated fabs, fabless and OSATs, but there's limited exposure to the equipment suppliers."PDFS/ Cimetrix together can allow equipment suppliers to collect operational data from equipment and use PDFS big data analytics platform and AI to analyze equipment operational, performance, and process control data. We believe working with PDFS/Cimetrix equipment suppliers will be able to improve process control, equipment uptime, and lower MTBF. The acquisition moves Exensio closer to become the de facto standard big data analytics platform for the semiconductor industry and expands the company into electronic manufacturing services, EMS, and display manufacturing," Richard opined.Based on the analyst's estimates, the acquisition could be accretive in CY21, with it adding $0.02-$0.04 to earnings.TipRanks shows that the #52-ranked analyst has an impressive 72% success rate and 28.2% average return per rating.CytokineticsCytokinetics, a biopharmaceutical company that develops muscle activators and muscle inhibitors as potential treatments for people with debilitating diseases which compromise muscle performance, just received a thumbs up from H.C. Wainwright's Joseph Pantginis. In addition to maintaining a Buy rating on November 16, he kept a $43 price target on the stock, implying 180% upside potential.Pantginis tells clients that omecamtiv mecarbil, its selective cardiac myosin activator for the potential treatment of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), "continues to hold promise for large pre-specified population."In October, CYTK and its partners, Amgen and Servier, said that the therapy met the primary composite efficacy endpoint of reducing CV death or HF events, but not the secondary endpoint of reduction of CV death. That said, last week, Cytokinetics presented the results of GALACTIC-HF, the Phase 3 outcome study of omecamtiv, at AHA, demonstrating that the drug shows a potentially greater treatment effect in the pre-specified group of patients with more severe HF, represented by a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF).It should be noted that the "fate" of omecamtiv could be dependent on "Amgen's views on the drug, together with a complete analysis of the data and the results of a market research analysis centered around the views of physicians and payers," according to Pantginis. However, the analyst remains optimistic."While a deeper analysis is yet to be conducted and more details are needed to clarify omecamtiv's real opportunity in HF, we believe these findings suggest a possible path forward for omecamtiv's approval based on its applicability for the treatment of a defined, significant, population," Pantginis explained.Pantginis is ranked #169 out of 7,093 analysts tracked by TipRanks.YelpFor RBC analyst Shweta Khajuria, Yelp is one of her top stock picks right now. In a bullish signal, the five-star analyst bumped up the price target from $29 to $34 (7% upside potential), as well as reiterated a Buy rating on November 18.Khajuria tells clients she had considered Yelp a "vaccine stock for several quarters now, and the case in point is the recent rally in the share price post Pfizer's vaccine announcement."Expounding on this, the analyst stated, "While there is a lot of uncertainty between now and the actual distribution of the vaccine at scale, we believe that Yelp is well-positioned to benefit from the recovery, given the improving fundamentals we saw in Q3 and based on our belief that the snap-back in restaurants & bars, beauty & fitness, health, & shopping categories will be relatively fast as the economy opens up. That in addition to improving trends in Home & Local driven by product improvements and secular tailwinds."In a post-coronavirus environment, Khajuria believes Yelp could benefit from the improving macro-economic environment as the economy opens up, given that ad spend is correlated to GDP growth. What's more, product changes that have been a key focus for the company over the last year and a half should bode well for Yelp, in the analyst's opinion."Management expects Yelp to drive greater benefits from the improvement in its value proposition to advertisers, both perceived and actual to take a greater share of Advertiser budgets," Khajuria added.When it comes to its go-to-market strategy, although Yelp's local salesforce is down 45% year-over-year, management expects to keep its salesforce intact even post-coronavirus, which is a positive, according to Khajuria.Khajuria is currently tracking an 89% success rate and an 80.3% average return per rating. 

2020/09/29, In this articleAMZNBillie Her, a warehouse associate, wraps plastic around a pallet of boxes at Amazon's Fulfillment Center in Thornton, Colorado.Helen H. Richardson| The Denver Post | Getty ImagesThe coronavirus pandemic has not only killed more than 1 million people around the world. It's also devastated the global economy, brought industries to a complete standstill, spurred mass layoffs and, in the case of retail, accelerated the slow-moving demise of already ailing department store chains.Amazon is one of the few exceptions.The e-commerce giant, with its seemingly endless selection and drive to deliver convenience and low prices, became the default retailer and an essential service for many consumers at the height of the coronavirus crisis.Facing store closures and empty shelves, shoppers turned to Amazon first for products to protect them from Covid-19, like hand sanitizer, face masks and disinfectants. They stocked up on household products and groceries, then, as the crisis wore on, ordered office supplies and fitness gear to adjust to staying indoors. Between February and March, toilet paper sales jumped 186% on Amazon from a year ago, while cough and cold medicine sales surged 862% year over year, according to e-commerce services provider CommerceIQ.The flood of online orders propelled Amazon to record sales during the second quarter. It then spent billions on coronavirus-related investments like safety gear for workers and its internal testing initiative, called Project Ultraviolet.While the U.S. navigated widespread unemployment and economic turmoil, Amazon kept hiring. The company brought on more than 175,000 new warehouse and delivery workers between March and mid-April to be able to fulfill customer orders. Amazon added 36,400 people in the three months ended June 30, bringing its head count to 876,800, an increase of 34% year over year.Amazon's pandemic-fueled growth isn't expected to slow down soon, especially as it prepares for the back-to-back shopping rush of Prime Day in October and the holidays after that. In fact, Amazon is expected to exceed $100 billion in quarterly revenue for the first time ever in the fourth quarter, according to analysts surveyed by FactSet. That would make it one of the very few American companies ever to cross that threshold, alongside Walmart and Exxon.'Hardest time we've ever faced'It wasn't a foregone conclusion that Amazon would thrive while many other companies struggled. The surge of unexpected orders initially caught Amazon off guard. The company struggled to meet its vaunted two-day delivery window, which it promises to Prime members as part of their $119 annual membership fee. It quickly ran out of high-demand products like hand sanitizer and paper towels, combated widespread price gouging, and rushed to adjust operations inside its warehouses to keep employees safe without significantly slowing down the pace of work. CEO Jeff Bezos acknowledged early on in the pandemic that the coronavirus upended Amazon's operations. "The current crisis is demonstrating the adaptability and durability of Amazon's business as never before, but it's also the hardest time we've ever faced," he said in April. Bezos said his time and attention had turned squarely to Covid-19, away from longer-term projects and experimental ventures like his rocket company Blue Origin. Bezos and many members of Amazon's senior leadership ranks met daily to tackle inventory issues and discuss the latest coronavirus updates. Global companies like Amazon are generally prepared for potential supply chain disruptions, but not like this one. Even Amazon, with its sprawling end-to-end logistics network spanning warehouses, planes, trucks and vans, wasn't able to keep operations steady. "The first place where [the coronavirus] hit hard was their supply chain," said Guru Hariharan, a former Amazon executive and CEO of CommerceIQ. "Amazon's holy grail or crown jewel is the supply chain. It's still yet to sort of come to normalcy."Amazon told its millions of third-party sellers that items like hand sanitizer and paper towels would take precedence in its warehouses, since those products were in such high demand. In April, Amazon began taking orders for nonessentials, but only in limited quantities.VIDEO16:2616:26What coronavirus means for your Amazon packagesTechMonths later, Amazon is still working to recover from its inventory interruptions. Once it began allowing nonessentials, there was a backlog of inbound shipments, said Juozas Kaziukenas, who runs the e-commerce research firm Marketplace Pulse. The company continues to restrict the amount of goods sellers can store in its U.S. warehouses, as space in its facilities remains tight. The pandemic showed that Amazon's decision to move its fulfillment operations almost entirely in-house can be both a blessing and a curse. Fulfillment by Amazon lets individual sellers ship their products to an Amazon warehouse and then Amazon ships the product to customers for a cut of each sale. The program allows Amazon to provide a consistent experience to Prime members. "I think Amazon's fulfillment is its greatest asset and strength - it is the most sophisticated and efficient e-commerce fulfillment operation at least in the US - but at the same time, perhaps inherently, it is also Amazon's single point of failure," Kaziukenas said. "Any disruption to its fulfillment operations affects Amazon and its marketplace."Working conditionsAmazon also has faced intense public scrutiny tied to its treatment of warehouse workers throughout the pandemic. Warehouse workers argued Amazon didn't do enough to keep them safe from the virus as they continued to pick, pack and ship out orders at a dizzying pace. Lawmakers, regulators, worker rights groups and some of Amazon's own corporate employees called on the company to take action. Grocery store workers and others stage a protest rally outside the Whole Foods Market, in the South End of Boston, to demand personal protective equipment, added benefits if needed and hazard pay, during the coronavirus pandemic on Apr. 7, 2020.Pat Greenhouse | Boston Globe | Getty ImagesVIDEO17:0917:09What it's like inside an Amazon warehouse during the Covid-19 pandemicTechThe company said it implemented more than 150 process updates inside its warehouses to stem virus transmission, from enhanced cleaning and social distancing measures, to mask requirements. It also ramped up testing for the coronavirus among its workers, and was testing workers at nearly a dozen warehouses in July. Despite these improvements, Amazon warehouses across the U.S. continue to report new cases of the coronavirus. At least eight Amazon employees have died from Covid-19. Tensions with warehouse workers have noticeably subsided since the height of the pandemic, but there are ongoing probes into its labor practices by attorneys general in New York and California.Amazon also faces the possibility of new coronavirus outbreaks in the coming months, making Bezos' hope to conduct "regular testing of all Amazonians" that much more vital.

2020/11/11, Twenty/20Amazon Alexa is introducing a new feature called Care Hub, designed to make help people to care for aging family members.The company said it has been hearing from customers for years about using Alexa's voice assistant to monitor aging relatives, who are increasingly looking to stay in their residences rather than move to a nursing home. The shift has created a more than $30 billion market for assistive technology, according to the Consumer Technology Association.As of Wednesday, customers with an Alexa voice assistant can link their account to an aging loved one's Alexa account. If the family member accepts the invitation, their caregiver can get alerts and view their relative's activity feed. That feed is more of a high-level summary that includes basic information such as lights being used in the home rather than a way to spy on parents.There's also an emergency contact feature where the loved one can simply say "Alexa, call for help." Alexa will then send an immediate push notification to the caregiver."Once that connection is established, the care recipient doesn't need to do anything and can go about their day as normal," said Toni Reid, vice president of Alexa Experiences and Echo Devices. "What the caregiver gets is some peace of mind."Amazon has been looking into the aging space for years, at one point discussing a potential collaboration with AARP, a lobbying group that represents the interests of people over 50. Reid acknowledged that it's "day one" for Amazon moving into the space, and that there's a lot more the company can do to help seniors age in place.Reid said the company has been working on the product for about 18 months, but it has taken on a new importance given that so many people are staying at home with Covid-19 and unable to see their relatives in person. The company has been beta testing the product with Amazon employees and their own loved ones in the past few months, before opening it up to its broader population of users.VIDEO1:2601:26Amazon debuts Alexa-powered wireless Echo earbudsPower Lunch

2020/11/19, VIDEO6:1706:17Malone: Cable industry missed out on becoming direct-to-consumer providerSquawk on the StreetLiberty Media Chairman John Malone told CNBC that Amazon, Apple or Roku could dominate in the crowded streaming space given their ability to scale globally."I think these global platforms will be enormously powerful," Malone said in an interview that aired Thursday with CNBC's David Faber. Most products they create will be selling wholesale through these transport systems, the billionaire media mogul added."The consumer's not going to want to buy from a broad number of subscription services. They're going to tend to want to go to one convenient supplier. It looks increasingly like that's going to be, you know, Amazon ... or it's going to be Apple, or it's going to be Roku. Or it could still be a Google effort," he added.As consumers continue to cut the cord in favor of streaming, the space has become increasingly competitive and the fight for subscribers continue to heat up. The largest U.S. media companies, including Disney, Comcast's NBCUniversal, AT&T's Warner Media, have launched their own streaming services, while the entertainment world is being disrupted by tech giants like Apple and Amazon.Malone said Amazon and Apple are providing "extremely high quality services" and meeting consumer needs, while Roku, which aggregates content on its platform, is well-positioned for growth in the long run."I think the people who have the platforms in addition to the content, only the platforms, like Roku, are in pretty good position to build a long-term profitable global business," Malone said."And because of their size and their market power, they are in the position to crush competitors or even to go into parallel businesses and wreak havoc. I don't see anything likely to slow it down," Malone added.Cable industry 'missed the boat'The media magnate believes that it's hard for the cable industry to catch up with other big direct consumer players that are rapidly expanding globally."I believe that the cable industry, the U.S. cable industry, kind of missed the boat on being able to be the direct consumer provider in the video space," Malone said. "Never say never, and never say it's too late, but the scale of a Charter or the scale of a Comcast is small compared to the scale of an Amazon or the scale of an Apple."Malone built cable empire TCI in the 1970s before selling it to AT&T in 1999 for roughly $50 billion.Disney's streaming service Disney+ blew past expectations for its first year with 73.7 million subscribers. Its cable networks' operating income fell 7% year over year last quarter amid lower results at ESPN.NBCUniversal's new Peacock streaming service has reached nearly 22 million sign-ups. The service, which offers free and paid options, had 10 million sign-ups when Comcast last reported earnings in July."These things are global. And the cable guys that we're talking about are a subset of the U.S.," Malone said. "I don't see how at this point they can catch the scale to be able to position themselves to be that powerful relative to the distribution of entertainment content."Disclosure: Comcast's NBCUniversal is the parent company of CNBC.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/10/10, John MacDougall | AFP | Getty ImagesCome Oct. 13 and 14, Amazon's annual two-day members-only online sales extravaganza Prime Day will bring customers over one million deals on myriad products in popular categories including home accessories, toys, and electronics. But in addition to providing shoppers with steep savings starting at midnight PST on Tuesday, the popular sales promotion will also offer thousands of small businesses opportunities to quickly scale customer awareness and revenue.Currently, more than 500,000 small and medium-sized businesses in the U.S. sell on Amazon, and the company's goal is to onboard an additional 100,000 vendors as new sellers to its store. Despite the ongoing pandemic, third-party sellers continue to crowd its virtual aisles, and presently account for over half of all units sold via the online retailer. In the 12-month period ending in May alone, American SMB sellers sold more than 3.4 billion products, up from 2.7 billion year-over-year, and averaged $160,000 in sales, up from approximately $100,000 a year prior."Prime Day offers small businesses added exposure to millions of shoppers globally," explains Maggie Cheung, co-founder of breakout hit home electronics device the Furbo Dog Camera. The five year-old company has been an Amazon seller since October 2016 and first began participating in Prime Day in 2017. "Our first year, we were given the spotlight deal … it helped catapult us to become the No. 1 bestselling pet camera in the world. Prime Day has also helped us tremendously on the financial side, as the one day that can sometimes result in 500X daily sales. … It even led us to a partnership with Universal Studios last year for the movie The Secret Life of Pets."As a result, the company has subsequently garnered tens of millions in sales. This year, it plans to offer its signature product for $133.99 instead of its typical $249 (a 46% discount) on Prime Day and is forecasting 70% year over year growth in revenue.Furbo founders: Victor Chang and Maggie CheungFurbo"Last year, customer traffic was up eight-fold on Prime Day, leading to our biggest single sales day of all time," agrees Kevin Kleiman, director of Atventure Retail Group, a manufacturer's representative which helps promote popular men's skincare product line MARLOWE. It has been an Amazon seller for over three years."We offered several products such as No. 102 Scrub Soap and No. 123 Facial Moisturizer on limited-time deals and partnered with Amazon's [goods from innovative startups-focused] Launchpad program to amplify these promotions." As a result, he says, not only did the brand enjoy a massive uptick in customer awareness. It also saw more than 4 in 10 initial purchasers become repeat buyers. This year, sales are up more than 40% over 2019, and expected to close out at well over $1 million.Typically slated for mid-July, like many popular institutions, Prime Day has been pushed back due to the continuing impact of Covid-19. As a result, many businesses who typically counted on the windfalls that it provided in Q3 sales are being forced to rely on hopes of a boost in Q4 purchases to make up for lost revenue instead.In addition, with economic and political uncertainty still raging, and over 50 million Americans having filed for unemployment since March, it remains uncertain just how much of a bonus that this year's promotion will bring.On the one hand, e-commerce activity is up 31.8% as of Q2 2020, according to the US Census Bureau, and now accounts for 16.1% of all domestic retail sales, per the Department of Commerce. But at the same time, nearly half of Americans say that they have suffered financial setbacks due to the pandemic, according to studies by Bankrate.A growing shift in consumer sentiment towards value-priced items and household essentials may likewise herald a pullback on many traditional purchases of luxury or holiday items, posits consulting firm McKinsey. However, with 71% of adults expecting to do more than half of their holiday shopping on the Internet this year, according to daVinci payments, experts remain hopeful that small businesses will nonetheless receive an early seasonal gift from Prime Day's delayed arrival."Prime Day provides [entrepreneurs and small businesses with] a great opportunity to be noticed, and an even bigger opportunity to build massive reach very quickly," notes Vic Drabiky, founder of strategic consulting firm January Digital. "It also presents a great opportunity to collect [shopping] data. Even if you're not officially participating, you can still offer special discounts and offerings to capitalize on consumers' desire to shop.""It's one of the biggest online shopping days each year – and provides a unique opportunity for small businesses to be featured alongside today's biggest brands," seconds Michael Parker, director of marketing at LuminAID, maker of solar-powered inflatable lights that has been selling on Amazon since Q4 2016 and participating in Prime Day since last year. "It gives small firms such as ours the opportunity to reach more customers than we ever could on our own. Last year, our sales on Prime Day were over 400% higher than an average day on Amazon. Over 250,000 LuminAID solar lanterns have now shipped.Of course, Amazon is also betting big on Prime Day activity, and the sellers that help promote it. Through Oct. 12, the company will offer Prime members a $10 credit to use on Prime Day when they spend $10 on items sold by select small businesses across Amazon's store.The online retailer also plans to invest over $100 million in promotional activities throughout Prime Day and the holiday season to help global small businesses boost sales and attract new customers. What's more, the company will also pump $18 billion into tools, services, and programs to support its sellers in 2020, according to company v.p. Dharmesh Mehta – and has already rolled out over 135 new tools to help them this year alone.VIDEO6:3906:39Covid-19 will accelerate shift to online shopping: Loop Capitals' ChukumbaSmall Business Playbook"Supporting small businesses is a fundamental part of our work … our success depends on their success," he says. "This has been a challenging year for many small businesses, and our commitment to adapting together for the future has never been more steadfast."Happily, for small business owners still hoping to get in on the action next week, Amazon spokespersons offer the following hints and tips:Run deals, coupons, or other promotions: A deal-focused event, Prime Day sellers in Amazon's store should consider providing special offers and sizable discounts during the event to help drive added discoverability to their brand and products.Manage your inventory closely: Prime Day is one of the biggest shopping days on Amazon. Sellers running a deal may see a large spike in sales and should ensure that they have Prime-eligible inventory available to meet customer demand.Prepare your product pages: The way products are presented in Amazon's store matters. To maximize Prime Day opportunities, you'll want to ensure that product pages feature meaningful information that can help educate customers about purchase decisions. It's important to offer a descriptive title, bullet-point text summaries, and multiple high-quality images to help customers quickly get an understanding of your products. If sellers have many similar products available, such as a shirt in multiple sizes and colors, they can also create variation relationship listings. These listings allow customers to compare and choose products based on different attributes such as size, color, or other characteristics from the available options found on a single product detail page.Increase traffic to your pages: Consider advertising products with targeted ads called "Sponsored Products" which appear within and alongside search results. If clicked on, these highly visible placements will take customers directly to your product detail pages.In addition, companies and digital marketing agencies who've found Prime Day success also offer the following expert advice to help build your business:Leverage the power of word of mouth marketing: With so many products on-sale, it pays to leverage social media sites, newsletters, and other direct online promotions channels to help drive awareness for sales in advance and help build buzz among shoppers. Aim to convince customers to add you to their online wishlist, and make purchases up-front, which can help you feature more prominently on Amazon.com and drive added bursts of traffic when promotions kick into high gear.Concentrate your efforts: To maximize returns, rather than discount your entire product line, instead offer high-impact discounts on a handful of your top-selling goods, which can boost overall buyer interest and help drive residual sales of other related items in turn.Share your story: Use brand pages and product pages to not only describe products and features, but also tell your company's backstory, as people like to do business with brands and social causes that they identify with.Don't skimp on logistics: Make a point to maintain sufficient product inventory to meet demand and have the back-end fulfillment systems in place needed to meet shipping deadlines, as failure to do so many negatively impact your business.Capitalize on alternate opportunities: If you don't have a Prime Day deal scheduled already, consider setting up a Prime Exclusive discount (available to Prime customers only, and often featured in online product collections) or Coupon deal, which can help drive added exposure instead.Find multiple ways to win: If selling large volumes of products at low margins won't do wonders for your bottom line in and of itself, consider other ways in which adopting Prime Day discounts can still help you build your business. For example, offering these savings might allow you to put your products in front of many new customers, potentially boosting your number of ratings and reviews. Likewise, if you can use a loss leader item to drive customers to your website or social media channel, and convince them to share their information, you may be able to market full-price products to these customers at a later date.Keep price discounts running after Prime Day ends: By keeping specials and deals running for a few extra days, you can take advantage of residual effects, and millions of shoppers on Amazon.com still rushing to see if there are any deals that they missed."Prime Day is a great opportunity that enables small businesses to reach millions of customers around the world, and enjoy unparalleled reach," explains Jeff Rosenblum, founder of digital marketing agency Questus. "There are over 100 million paying members of Amazon Prime, which offers the ability for them to compete on a global scale, as if they are one of the biggest corporations on the planet."Noting that Prime Day 2019's sales eclipsed Black Friday and Cyber Monday's numbers on Amazon combined, savvy small businesses will undoubtedly find a way to make the numbers add up – and, hopefully, get a much-needed head start on the holiday season. 

2020/10/21, Amazon on Wednesday launched one-hour grocery pick-up at all Whole Foods locations nationwide.AmazonAmazon is making it faster for Prime members to place Whole Foods orders online and pick them up at the store, in the latest sign of growing demand for curbside pickup services.Amazon is launching free, one-hour grocery pickup for Prime members at all Whole Foods stores in the U.S., the company announced Wednesday. To qualify for one-hour pickup, grocery orders must total $35 or more. There are currently 487 Whole Foods stores in the U.S.The feature presents a new perk for Prime members, who pay $119 per year for free shipping and access to other services like Prime Video and Music, as well as free Amazon Fresh grocery deliveries. Before Wednesday's announcement, Prime members could pick up Whole Foods orders only at select stores.Amazon started ramping up pickup options at Whole Foods stores in April at the height of the coronavirus pandemic, expanding the service to more than 150 stores, up from about 80 locations.Amazon began offering curbside pickup at select Whole Foods stores in 2018.AmazonCurbside pickup on the riseOptions to buy goods online and pick them up in person, like curbside pickup and in-store pickup, have gained traction during the coronavirus crisis, alongside an overall spike in online grocery services. Shoppers are increasingly turning to these services as they look for ways to cut down on their time spent in stores.These services were on the rise long before the pandemic, however. While Amazon was focusing more on grocery delivery, rivals Walmart and Target have aggressively expanded curbside pickup over the past few years. Now, it's effectively become table stake for retailers, said Steve Caine, a retail expert and partner at Bain & Co. The service provides customers with more flexible pickup windows, and it's more cost effective for retailers, since they no longer have to handle the expensive last-mile delivery process."Amazon is late to the game," said Caine. "They're really trying to catch up here with those who have been at this for a while."Whole Foods, which Amazon bought in 2017, has a smaller nationwide footprint and doesn't provide the same amount of density in a local market as a local grocer or traditional big-box retailer like Walmart, Caine said. While Whole Foods has fewer than 500 stores in the U.S., Walmart has at least 4,700 stores.By offering curbside pickup as a perk for Prime subscribers, Amazon is betting that interest will carry over long after the pandemic. Early signs are indicating that it could, with about 68% of U.S. shoppers saying they plan to use curbside pickup services at stores more in the future, according to a recent study conducted by GlobalData Retail."While Covid-19 accelerated the adoption of online grocery services and prompted new customers to try services like grocery pickup, it's clear that this offering will become a more permanent solution for many customers," Amazon said in Wednesday's blog post.VIDEO2:4302:43Big box stores are ramping up sales to keep up with Amazon's Prime DayE-Commerce

2020/10/07, In this articleAMZNJeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon, pictured on Oct. 2, 2019.Elif Ozturk | Anadolu Agency | Getty ImagesLONDON – Lawmakers in the European Union have written a letter to Amazon boss Jeff Bezos asking if his company is hiring intelligence agents to spy on politicians, trade unionists, and members of staff.Authored by Leïla Chaibi, a French politician from the La France Insoumise party, the letter was signed by 36 MEPs (Members of European Parliament) from mostly left-wing and green parties across the EU."We wonder about your intentions with great concern: does Amazon's monitoring intentionally target trade unionists, Amazon workers, as well as political representatives (including ourselves) who could possibly express criticism of its activities?" the letter reads.The letter comes after Amazon deleted two job postings for "intelligence analysts," ideally with French and Spanish language skills. According to the postings, the jobs involved monitoring various threats perceived by Amazon including trade unions and "hostile political leaders.""We are concerned about whether European trade unions, as well as local, national or European elected representatives, are affected by this approach to 'threat monitoring', which aims to repress collective action and trade union organizing," the letter reads.If hired, the analysts would have been charged with gathering information on any internal and external threats to Amazon and reporting the data to leaders across the organization.The job ads said the analysts would be tasked with gathering intelligence on "sensitive topics that are highly confidential, including labor organizing threats against the company," "funding and activities connected to corporate campaigns (internal and external) against Amazon," as well as briefings on "dynamic situations" including protests, geopolitical crises and other topics "sensitive to human resources and employee relations."The roles, which were aimed at candidates with law enforcement or military experience, were both based in Phoenix, Arizona, and the hires would be part of Amazon's Global Security Operation's Global Intelligence Program.An Amazon spokesperson told CNBC: "The job post was not an accurate description of the role — it was made in error and has since been corrected."Amazon pointed out that it doesn't want staff to "spy" on third-party groups. Instead, the company said it wants analysts to look at publicly available information to understand the environment in which it operates.Last week trade unions said the European Commission, the EU's executive arm, should investigate whether Amazon's monitoring of workers was legal.Tensions between Amazon and warehouse workersAmazon's labor practices have been in focus before and during the coronavirus pandemic.Beginning in March, tensions developed between Amazon and warehouse workers, with employees claiming the company hadn't done enough to protect them from catching the coronavirus.The company drew further criticism after, in April, it fired three employees who were outspoken critics of its labor practices. Amazon said it fired the employees after they violated internal policies.Prior to the pandemic, it faced criticism from politicians and employees over a pay disparity between warehouse workers and corporate employees. Amazon later announced it would raise the minimum wage for all U.S. employees to $15. Last year, warehouse workers also held protests during Amazon's annual Prime Day shopping event to shed light on concerns around working conditions and wage practices."We already have works councils and employee bodies at Amazon. The fact is we already offer excellent pay, excellent benefits and excellent opportunities for career growth, all while working in a safe, modern work environment," an Amazon spokesperson said.  "At Amazon, these benefits and opportunities come with the job, as does the ability to communicate directly with the leadership of the company. We encourage anyone to compare our overall pay, benefits, and workplace environment to other retailers and major employers in the communities we operate in. For us, it will always be about providing a great employment experience through a direct connection with our employees and working together as a team to provide a world-class customer experience."Additional reporting by CNBC's Annie Palmer.

2020/11/27, Eero Pro 6EeroI set up Amazon's $599 Eero Pro 6 mesh Wi-Fi system a few days ago and have already noticed a huge improvement in my Wi-Fi at home.You might want to try mesh networking if you know you pay for fast internet but feel like your home Wi-Fi is slow or there are areas of your house where you can't stream movies or video chat. Wi-Fi is important right now, with lots of people working or attending class in different rooms of the house.Mesh networking, to put it simply, puts several wireless routers around your house so that they cover a greater area. It works better than cheaper Wi-Fi extenders.The new model from Amazon's Eero supports the latest Wi-Fi 6 standards, so you can have more gadgets connected to Wi-Fi without as much interference. It also has better antennas than the last generation Eero 5, which I was using before I set up the Eero Pro 6.Here's what you need to know about it.What's goodEero Pro 6EeroThe Eero Pro 6, as with other Eero products, is super easy to set up. You just plug one hub into the modem provided by your cable company and then use an app to add the other two in different parts of your house. It does all the legwork in the background so you don't have to worry about getting each unit to talk to one another. I set up the new system in about 10 minutes.I pay for really fast, one-gigabit internet but, normally, I get Wi-Fi speeds that are about 90% slower than that. I live in an old house with plaster walls that really mess up the Wi-Fi signal, even in places that are just a few rooms away from my router.The Eero Pro 6 has doubled or quadrupled my speeds around the house, boosting them from anywhere around 100Mbps up to 700Mbps, depending on the room I'm in. It means I can now stream game services such as Google Stadia in my living room, where I couldn't before, or download movies and apps much faster around the house. And it means there's enough speed for my wife and me to do multiple video streams at the same time.I haven't had any issues with dropped connections yet, as I sometimes did with the regular Eero 5 and its competitor Google Wi-Fi, given they didn't quite have enough strength to cover my whole home.I don't have children old enough to use this feature, but Eero also lets you manage different people in your home and block services. So, your kids might not be able to use FaceTime after a certain time, for example, or visit some websites you deem inappropriate.The regular Eero 6, which I haven't tested, works similarly but doesn't provide as strong of an antenna or support the faster speeds I pay for from my cable company. But it may be a good alternative to the Pro model if you live in a smaller home or don't pay for gigabit internet.What's badEero Pro 6EeroThe Eero Pro 6 is expensive. It's on sale for Black Friday for $479 but otherwise costs $599. That's more than twice the cost of the regular Eero 6. So, only buy it if you pay for really fast internet (at least 500Mbps) and need to cover up to 6,000 square feet.This is more geeky, but I also wish one of the access points had more Ethernet ports. There are only two. You'll always get a faster connection if you're wired in. It's best for game consoles where you need the fastest possible connection, or for things that are constantly plugged in such as smart-light hubs or your work computer. I have an extra switch I plug in to the back of the Eero to solve this problem and expand the number of Ethernet jacks, but it's something folks who care about wired connections should know about.Sometimes your phone or tablet or laptop will connect to the farthest Eero hotspot. I asked Eero co-founder and CEO Nick Weaver about this during a quick phone call.He explained that the Eero doesn't decide which gadget it connects to and, instead, it's the client device, like your iPhone or tablet, that decides which hotspot to use. Sometimes, that device will connect to the farthest one for whatever reason. But Weaver told me you can turn on a feature called "band steering" that forces your gadgets to use a 5GHz frequency, if available, which can help it connect to the nearest hotspot. Another solution I've found: Turn off your Wi-Fi and turn it back on again. But Weaver warned doing this too often can cause a device to be blacklisted from Wi-Fi and will require you to enter your password again.Gamers and other computer enthusiasts who care about specific Quality of Service, or QoS, settings won't find them here just yet. Those let you give priority to some devices, such as a game console or a PC, over others. But, Weaver told me that sometimes people forget they have a game console using all the network's speed and then wonder why other gadgets are running slowly. So, instead, it smartly manages this in the background. But Eero is testing a feature that gives more control to optimize video conferencing and gaming. Anyway, I play lots of games and haven't had any issues with how the Eero works, so this isn't a huge deal for me.Finally, Eero sells subscription services with added security features. There are packages for $2.99 per month or $9.99 per month, with discounts if you subscribe for a full year up front, and they provide extras such as password management and ad blocking. It's another way Amazon is making money off the product. It doesn't bother me much since I don't pay for them and don't need them, but I've heard from some people who say they've seen notifications on their phone to subscribe. Dismiss them if you don't need them.Should you buy it?Eero Pro 6EeroYes, if you're paying for really expensive home internet and aren't getting the speeds you expect over Wi-Fi, you should consider a mesh networking system like the Eero Pro 6. I've been a big fan of Eero's products over the years and like the latest update, which fixed a lot of the coverage problems I had with even the last generation regular Eero 5.But it's expensive, and if you don't pay for really fast internet, don't have coverage problems or don't need to cover a lot of space with Wi-Fi, you don't need it.VIDEO1:1201:12Amazon fears US workforce unionization: AnalystSquawk Box Asia

2020/11/27, VIDEO0:5400:54Wall Street points to modest gains amid low trading volume after ThanksgivingMorning ReportTake a look at some of the biggest movers in the premarket:AstraZeneca (AZN) – AstraZeneca is likely to run a new global trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, according to CEO Pascal Soriot. He told Bloomberg News that the drugmaker may launch a fresh study testing the vaccine at a lower dosage, rather than adding a test of the lower dosage to an ongoing U.S. trial. The shares fell 1.6% in premarket trading as of 7:36 a.m. ET.BBVA (BBVA) – BBVA and rival Spanish bank Banco de Sabadell have ended merger talks, after the two sides could not come to an agreement on terms of a deal. BBVA was in the news earlier this month when it sold its U.S. operations to PNC Financial (PNC) for $11.6 billion.Walt Disney (DIS) – Walt Disney has increased the number of planned layoffs to 32,000 from the 28,000 it had announced in September. The company's Disneyland theme park in California remains closed due to the pandemic, and its other theme parks have reopened but with capacity limits in place.Pfizer (PFE) – Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine candidate could receive Canadian approval in December, according to a senior official for the country's drug regulator Health Canada. The agency had previously said approval was likely to come during the first quarter of 2021.Amazon.com (AMZN) – Amazon will spend more than $500 million on holiday bonuses for employees who work during the holiday season. Full-time workers employed for the month of December will receive $300, while part-time workers will get $150. Amazon shares were slightly higher in premarket trading as of 7:36 a.m. ET.Biogen (BIIB), Sage Therapeutics (SAGE) – The drugmakers announced a collaboration to jointly develop and commercialize two experimental Sage treatments, one that treats a variety of psychiatric disorders and another designed to deal with neurological disorders.Apple (AAPL) – Apple supplier Foxconn will move some iPad and MacBook assembly operations to Vietnam from China, according to a Reuters report. Foxconn is said to be doing so at Apple's request, in hopes of minimizing the impact of trade disputes between the U.S. and China.Tesla (TSLA) – The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration is investigating possible front suspension safety issues involving certain Tesla Model S and Model X cars. The probe involves about 115,000 vehicles.Baidu (BIDU) – Baidu attempt to sell a stake in video streaming service iQIYI (IQ) have come to a halt, according to Reuters, with potential buyers Alibaba (BABA) and Tencent Holdings said to be balking at Baidu's price as well as regulatory concerns surrounding any deal. Alibaba and Tencent are said to have each held separate talks with Baidu about iQIYI.Facebook (FB) – Facebook could launch its planned "Libra" cryptocurrency in a limited form in January, according to a report in the Financial Times.Slack (WORK) – The workplace messaging platform company remains on watch today, after jumping Wednesday on reports that it was in advanced talks to be acquired by Salesforce.com (CRM). The shares fell about 3% in premarket trading as of 7:36 a.m. ET.Tiffany (TIF) – The luxury retailer has called a Dec. 30 special shareholder meeting for a vote on its revised deal to be bought by France's LVMH. LVMH agreed to the amended deal in late October, which reduced the takeover price to $131.50 per share from the original $135.Mesa Air (MESA) – Billionaire Investor Ron Burkle now has a 7.8% in the parent of regional airline Mesa Airlines, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.

2020/11/27, Eero Pro 6EeroI set up Amazon's $599 Eero Pro 6 mesh Wi-Fi system a few days ago and have already noticed a huge improvement in my Wi-Fi at home.You might want to try mesh networking if you know you pay for fast internet but feel like your home Wi-Fi is slow or there are areas of your house where you can't stream movies or video chat. Wi-Fi is important right now, with lots of people working or attending class in different rooms of the house.Mesh networking, to put it simply, puts several wireless routers around your house so that they cover a greater area. It works better than cheaper Wi-Fi extenders.The new model from Amazon's Eero supports the latest Wi-Fi 6 standards, so you can have more gadgets connected to Wi-Fi without as much interference. It also has better antennas than the last generation Eero 5, which I was using before I set up the Eero Pro 6.Here's what you need to know about it.What's goodEero Pro 6EeroThe Eero Pro 6, as with other Eero products, is super easy to set up. You just plug one hub into the modem provided by your cable company and then use an app to add the other two in different parts of your house. It does all the legwork in the background so you don't have to worry about getting each unit to talk to one another. I set up the new system in about 10 minutes.I pay for really fast, one-gigabit internet but, normally, I get Wi-Fi speeds that are about 90% slower than that. I live in an old house with plaster walls that really mess up the Wi-Fi signal, even in places that are just a few rooms away from my router.The Eero Pro 6 has doubled or quadrupled my speeds around the house, boosting them from anywhere around 100Mbps up to 700Mbps, depending on the room I'm in. It means I can now stream game services such as Google Stadia in my living room, where I couldn't before, or download movies and apps much faster around the house. And it means there's enough speed for my wife and me to do multiple video streams at the same time.I haven't had any issues with dropped connections yet, as I sometimes did with the regular Eero 5 and its competitor Google Wi-Fi, given they didn't quite have enough strength to cover my whole home.I don't have children old enough to use this feature, but Eero also lets you manage different people in your home and block services. So, your kids might not be able to use FaceTime after a certain time, for example, or visit some websites you deem inappropriate.The regular Eero 6, which I haven't tested, works similarly but doesn't provide as strong of an antenna or support the faster speeds I pay for from my cable company. But it may be a good alternative to the Pro model if you live in a smaller home or don't pay for gigabit internet.What's badEero Pro 6EeroThe Eero Pro 6 is expensive. It's on sale for Black Friday for $479 but otherwise costs $599. That's more than twice the cost of the regular Eero 6. So, only buy it if you pay for really fast internet (at least 500Mbps) and need to cover up to 6,000 square feet.This is more geeky, but I also wish one of the access points had more Ethernet ports. There are only two. You'll always get a faster connection if you're wired in. It's best for game consoles where you need the fastest possible connection, or for things that are constantly plugged in such as smart-light hubs or your work computer. I have an extra switch I plug in to the back of the Eero to solve this problem and expand the number of Ethernet jacks, but it's something folks who care about wired connections should know about.Sometimes your phone or tablet or laptop will connect to the farthest Eero hotspot. I asked Eero co-founder and CEO Nick Weaver about this during a quick phone call.He explained that the Eero doesn't decide which gadget it connects to and, instead, it's the client device, like your iPhone or tablet, that decides which hotspot to use. Sometimes, that device will connect to the farthest one for whatever reason. But Weaver told me you can turn on a feature called "band steering" that forces your gadgets to use a 5GHz frequency, if available, which can help it connect to the nearest hotspot. Another solution I've found: Turn off your Wi-Fi and turn it back on again. But Weaver warned doing this too often can cause a device to be blacklisted from Wi-Fi and will require you to enter your password again.Gamers and other computer enthusiasts who care about specific Quality of Service, or QoS, settings won't find them here just yet. Those let you give priority to some devices, such as a game console or a PC, over others. But, Weaver told me that sometimes people forget they have a game console using all the network's speed and then wonder why other gadgets are running slowly. So, instead, it smartly manages this in the background. But Eero is testing a feature that gives more control to optimize video conferencing and gaming. Anyway, I play lots of games and haven't had any issues with how the Eero works, so this isn't a huge deal for me.Finally, Eero sells subscription services with added security features. There are packages for $2.99 per month or $9.99 per month, with discounts if you subscribe for a full year up front, and they provide extras such as password management and ad blocking. It's another way Amazon is making money off the product. It doesn't bother me much since I don't pay for them and don't need them, but I've heard from some people who say they've seen notifications on their phone to subscribe. Dismiss them if you don't need them.Should you buy it?Eero Pro 6EeroYes, if you're paying for really expensive home internet and aren't getting the speeds you expect over Wi-Fi, you should consider a mesh networking system like the Eero Pro 6. I've been a big fan of Eero's products over the years and like the latest update, which fixed a lot of the coverage problems I had with even the last generation regular Eero 5.But it's expensive, and if you don't pay for really fast internet, don't have coverage problems or don't need to cover a lot of space with Wi-Fi, you don't need it.VIDEO1:1201:12Amazon fears US workforce unionization: AnalystSquawk Box Asia

2020/10/27, Getty ImagesAmazon said Tuesday it's hiring 100,000 seasonal employees to assist with increased demand over the holiday season.The employees will help pick, pack and ship customer orders across Amazon's network of warehouses in the U.S. and Canada. Amazon will hire the most workers in California, Texas, Maryland, Georgia and New Jersey.Amazon hired 200,000 temporary workers during last year's holiday season, twice as many as in 2018.Due to the coronavirus pandemic, Amazon has already staffed up its warehouses significantly. It went on a hiring spree in March and April as it faced a surge of online orders.In May, Amazon said it would offer permanent roles to 70% of the 175,000 workers it hired at the height of the pandemic. Even after it brought on 125,000 warehouse employees, the remaining 50,000 workers will stay on seasonal contracts that are expected to last up to 11 months.Amazon employed 876,800 people as of June 30, excluding contractors and temporary workers.The coronavirus pandemic has reshaped this year's holiday shopping season in a number of ways. Amazon postponed Prime Day to October from mid-July, which kickstarted the holiday rush earlier than ever for many retailers. With coronavirus cases rising in some parts of the country, analysts expect the bulk of holiday shopping to take place online.-- CNBC's Frank Holland contributed to this report.VIDEO10:2010:20How Amazon Prime Day drove record numbers for third-party sellers: CNBC After HoursCNBC After Hours

2020/10/29, Nikol Szymul staffs a reception desk at Amazon offices discretely tucked into a building called Fiona in downtown Seattle, Washington on May 11, 2017.Getty ImagesAmazon has saved nearly $1 billion in employee travel expenses this year, as the coronavirus pandemic kept employees from hopping on airplanes."There's some benefits going on right now," Amazon CFO Brian Olsavsky said on the company's third-quarter earnings on Thursday. "Travel ground to a halt."Internal travel expenses will likely resume "at a later date," but they may not rise to the same level that they reached in the past, Olsavksky added. He also said the company saved some money from reduced marketing costs.Early on in the pandemic, Amazon told its more than 1 million employees to avoid all non-essential travel in the U.S. and abroad out of concern for their health and safety. Additionally, many countries have prohibited or restricted U.S. citizens from entering, as U.S. coronavirus cases continue to rise.Despite the cost savings from travel and marketing, Amazon says expenses are increasing in the current quarter. Coronavirus-related costs are expected to rise to $4 billion in the period, up from $2.5 billion last quarter.The company said fourth-quarter operating income will range from $1 billion to $4.5 billion, with about $4 billion of costs tied to Covid-19, up from $2.5 billion last quarter. The bulk of those costs are related to "productivity headwinds" from increased social distancing, along with testing employees for the coronavirus and acquiring protective supplies.WATCH: Amazon beats top and bottom line in Q3VIDEO1:1401:14Amazon beats top and bottom line in Q3Closing Bell

2020/10/15, In this articleAMZNA worker loads customer orders into a waiting tractor-trailer inside the million-square foot Amazon distribution warehouse that opened last fall in Fall River, MA on Mar. 23, 2017.John Tlumacki | Boston Globe | Getty ImagesAmazon said third-party sellers on its marketplace earned more than $3.5 billion during this year's Prime Day shopping event, an increase of nearly 60% compared with last year and a record for the small and midsize businesses that make up the marketplace.The company, which didn't disclose total Prime Day sales, said third-party sellers' Prime Day sales grew even more than Amazon's retail business.Prime Day, launched in 2015, has grown to become one of the company's most important retail and marketing events. It secures new Prime subscribers and allows Amazon to further promote its products and services.This year's Prime Day was out of the ordinary, as the coronavirus pandemic forced Amazon to push back the marquee event from mid-July to October. The timing means that the holiday shopping season will kick off earlier than ever. Other major retailers have followed Amazon's lead and began their discount promotions this month.Amazon's range of Echo, Ring, Eero and private label products are usually deeply discounted during Prime Day. Amazon said its smaller and cheaper voice-activated smart speaker, the Echo Dot, was the most popular product this year. Prime Day was held in 20 countries this year.But the event also sees heavy participation from the more than 2.3 million small and medium-size businesses that make up Amazon's online marketplace. In 2019, third-party sellers saw more than $2 billion in sales during Prime Day. This year, top-selling categories for third-party sellers included bedding, wireless accessories, nutrition and wellness, arts and crafts, as well as health care, Amazon said.Third-party sellers are of growing importance to Amazon, accounting for about 58% of the company's total merchandise sold. At that percentage, Amazon stands to have generated at least $7 billion in sales during this year's Prime Day. Previously, JPMorgan forecast this year's event could bring in revenue of $7.5 billion, while eMarketer targeted sales of close to $10 billion.The mega-sale is expected to help the company report a record fourth quarter. Combined with the holiday sales rush, Amazon is expected to exceed $100 billion in quarterly revenue for the first time ever in the fourth quarter, according to analysts surveyed by FactSet.VIDEO3:4803:48Prime Day this year kicks off the holidays in the U.S. and around the globe: AnalystSquawk Alley

2020/10/29, Amazon CEO Jeff BezosAlex Wong | Getty Images(This story is for CNBC Pro subscribers only).Amazon is set to report its third-quarter results after the bell on Thursday, and history shows that this report can sometimes be a little rough for the company's stock.Over the past five years, Amazon's shares typically go down in the session following the third-quarter report, and the rate of beats for earnings and revenue are both below average, according to Bespoke Investment Group.

2020/09/29, Amazon One lets users enter some of the company's stores and buy products with the palm of their hand.AmazonAmazon wants to speed up shopping trips by letting users pay with the palm of their hand.The company on Tuesday launched Amazon One, a new biometric technology that enables shoppers to enter and pay for items at stores by placing their palm over a scanning device. In order for it to work, users first have to connect their palm to a stored credit card. After that, users are able to pay with their hand.To start, Amazon One will be an entry option at two of its dozens of cashierless Amazon Go stores, located near its Seattle headquarters. Over time, Amazon plans to introduce the technology at more of its physical stores in the coming months. Amazon also hopes to sell the palm-scanning technology to other companies like retailers, stadiums and office buildings. The company said it's already in "active discussions with several potential customers." It's a model Amazon has experimented with before. In March, Amazon said it will begin selling the technology powering its cashierless stores, called "Just Walk Out," which allows shoppers to enter a store by scanning an app and then exit without waiting in line. Cameras and sensors track what items customers choose and charge them when they leave. Amazon said it's in "active discussions" with third parties that want to introduce the palm-scanning technology to their stores.AmazonAmazon's efforts to license technologies to other retailers could hit some roadblocks. It's unclear whether competing retailers will want to adopt the technology in their stores and potentially hand over customer data to a rival. Dilip Kumar, Amazon's vice president of physical retail and technology, told Recode that Amazon One would collect data on where customers shop, but not what they purchase or how much time they spend in third parties stores.Amazon is a powerful retail player both online and offline. Amazon is expected to claim nearly 40% of the e-commerce market this year and has made significant inroads into the brick-and-mortar retail space with its slew of Go stores, Whole Foods locations, 4-star stores and Amazon Books locations, along with a new chain of Fresh grocery stores. Shoppers may also be wary to hand over biometric data to one of the country's largest retailers. Amazon addressed privacy concerns in the launch of Amazon One, saying it designed the technology to be "highly secure." Palm images aren't stored on the Amazon One device and are instead encrypted and stored in a secure area that was "custom-built in the cloud." Amazon One users will also be able to request to delete their biometric data after using it, either via the device or online. Amazon said it chose to use palm-scanning technology because it's "considered more private" than other biometric alternatives, which include things like eye-scanning technology or facial recognition. "You can't determine a person's identity by looking at an image of their palm," Amazon added.VIDEO2:5902:59Amazon's flying security camera—Here's what you need to knowSquawk Alley

2020/10/09, In this articleAMZNAn Amazon warehouseGetty ImagesTwo Amazon warehouses in California have been cited by the state's division of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration for coronavirus-related health and safety violations. Cal/OSHA issued $1,870 in fines to an Amazon fulfillment center in Eastvale, California, known as LGB3, and a delivery station in Hawthorne, California, referred to as DLA8, for failing to mitigate potential exposure to the coronavirus by providing adequate health and safety training."Employees were unaware of key elements in the training materials, including but not limited to, sanitation of work stations and frequently touched objects in the workplace," according to the citations, which were issued Oct. 6 and first reported by The Los Angeles Times.Since the coronavirus hit U.S. shores in March, warehouse workers, labor groups and politicians have raised concerns that Amazon hasn't done enough to keep its employees safe from catching the virus. Amazon has said its spent roughly $4 billion on coronavirus-related initiatives, which includes developing testing capabilities, safety gear, wage increases and training. Amazon told CNBC in a statement that it plans to appeal the citations."We have great respect for OSHA, but we believe our training programs are more than adequate, and we plan to contest," the company said. "We've invested heavily in training people about staying safe and healthy, from our onboarding for new hires to constant reminders, dedicated safety ambassadors, and ongoing training and communication about safety protocols, each day, through a variety of mediums."Amazon said state health and safety regulatory agencies have inspected more than 100 of its facilities since March and said its processes "went beyond compliance requirements."Cal/OSHA began investigating conditions at LGB3 in late April and at DLA8 in early May after the labor advocacy group Warehouse Worker Resource Center brought the complaints on behalf of employees at the facilities.In the complaints, which were obtained by CNBC, the WWRC raised concerns about a lack of coronavirus safety measures at LGB3 and DLA8, including failing to close off sections of the warehouse believed to have been visited by infected employees, inadequate sanitation practices and training, as well as failing to give workers adequate time to wash or sanitize their hands.At DLA8 in Hawthorne, WWRC said Amazon's communication was so poor that workers learned an employee died from Covid-19 in media reports. Contracted delivery drivers received no notifications of confirmed cases at Amazon facilities, the complaint said."This withholding of information goes well beyond what is needed to protect the privacy and identity of sick employees," the complaint states.The citation comes after Amazon last week revealed that 19,816 front-line employees have contracted Covid-19 between March 1 and Sept. 19. The company said the rate of infection among employees was 42% lower than expected, compared with the general population rate in the U.S. VIDEO1:1801:18Amazon reports 19K front-line workers test positive for Covid-19The News with Shepard Smith

2020/10/21, The Amazon headquarters sits virtually empty on March 10, 2020 in downtown Seattle, Washington. In response to the coronavirus outbreak, Amazon recommended all employees in its Seattle office to work from home, leaving much of downtown nearly void of people.John Moore | Getty ImagesAmazon will allow employees who can work from home to do so through June 2021, CNBC confirmed Tuesday. "We continue to prioritize the health of our employees and follow local government guidance," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement. "Employees with work that can effectively be done from home can continue to do that work from home through June 30, 2021." News of the extended work from home policy was first reported by Bloomberg. Amazon follows in the footsteps of several tech companies that have extended their work from home policies until at least early 2021, including Apple, Facebook and Uber. Twitter has allowed employees to work from home "forever" if they wish.The move pushes out the timeline for a return to work for Amazon's corporate employees, who've been working from home since March. The company previously said that employees could work from home until January. Amazon's fulfillment operations have functioned as an essential business during the pandemic, which requires warehouse employees and delivery drivers to report to work. The topic has been a source of controversy for Amazon, as lawmakers and labor groups have criticized the company's treatment of frontline employees amid the coronavirus crisis.As of Tuesday, the U.S. has reported more than 8.2 million coronavirus cases and at least 220,649 deaths, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University.VIDEO3:1103:11Amazon to benefit from long-run shift to online grocery shopping: Loop CapitalSquawk Box Asia

2020/10/01, Peter Endig | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon on Thursday released comprehensive data on the spread of the coronavirus among its employees, disclosing for the first time that more than 19,000 workers, or 1.44% of the total, contracted the virus this year.Between March 1 and Sept. 19, Amazon counted 19,816 presumed or confirmed Covid-19 cases across its roughly 1.37 million Amazon and Whole Foods Market front-line employees across the U.S. The information comes months after labor groups, politicians and regulators repeatedly pressed Amazon to disclose how many of its workers were infected by Covid-19. Early on in the pandemic, warehouse workers raised concerns that Amazon wasn't doing enough to protect them from getting sick and called for facilities with confirmed cases to be shut down. Lacking data from Amazon, warehouse workers compiled a crowdsourced database of infections based on notifications of new cases at facilities across the U.S.Amazon previously declined to share the data, saying it would be misleading and lacked context. In Thursday's blog post, Amazon said the total number of infections would be "more powerful" if other companies released similar data. "Wide availability of data would allow us to benchmark our progress and share best practices across businesses and industries," the company said.There have been at least eight confirmed Amazon worker Covid-19 deaths this year, but Amazon did not give an updated figure in its announcement Thursday.Walmart, the largest employer in the U.S., said in April that fewer than 1% of its roughly 1.5 million U.S. employees had gotten sick with the coronavirus. The company has not released a total number or an updated percentage. Walmart didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. Amazon's total does not include its network of third-party delivery drivers, which handle a portion of last-mile deliveries. It's unclear how many contracted drivers make up Amazon's third-party delivery network, but the company previously said it has added nearly 85,000 jobs across the U.S., Canada, UK, Spain, and Germany.Amazon said the rate of infection among employees was 42% lower than expected, compared with the "general population rate" in the U.S. If Amazon's infection rates were in line with the community, the total number of cases would have reached 33,952, the company said. The company has long maintained that the rate of infection in its warehouses is lower than what the rates are in surrounding communities, though that has been disputed by workers, specifically at an Amazon warehouse in Minnesota, where infection rates exceeded community levels.Amazon also gave an update on its progress providing coronavirus testing to front-line workers. Thousands of tests are being conducted daily, Amazon said, and it expects that to grow to 50,000 tests a day across 650 facilities by November.CNBC previously reported Amazon's goal is to test the bulk of its front-line workers every two weeks, with employees testing themselves with nasal swabs. The company previously said it would invest its expected Q2 profit of $4 billion into its Covid-19 response and will spend $1 billion on testing throughout the year.Amazon has built a dedicated team of research scientists, program managers, procurement specialists and software engineers in order to quickly scale up its testing capabilities, it said. It has built its own lab to develop coronavirus testing capacity, with teams focused on these efforts in Sunnyvale, California, and Hebron, Kentucky.— CNBC's Melissa Repko contributed to this article.VIDEO1:5301:53Amazon spent $4B on Covid-related costs in Q2Closing Bell

2020/11/09, In this articleAMZNDavid Limp, senior vice president of devices and services at Amazon.com Inc., presents the Amazon Echo Dot smart speaker during an unveiling event at the company's Spheres headquarters in Seattle, Washington, U.S., on Thursday, Sept. 20, 2018.Andrew Burton | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesIn a thread on Reddit over the weekend, some Amazon Echo owners complained about unwanted commercial messages from Alexa. Sometimes, if you ask the Alexa the weather, for example, it might give you the weather and then ask if you want ideas for stuff to buy.It happened on my Echo, too. When I tested it by asking Alexa the time, Alexa told me the time and then added : "By the way, I can help you celebrate birthdays. Would you like to hear some ideas for birthday themes?" It didn't happen all the time, just sporadically.It happens enough that people are vocal about it, though.It's these sort of unwanted ads that seems to be annoying some people. I'll show you how to turn them off, but first a reminder why they probably exist in the first place: Amazon can price its Echo speakers lower than some competitors by using it as a way to get you to buy more stuff from Amazon.It's similar to how Amazon can sell such affordable Kindle readers and Fire tablets. By selling at cost or below cost, Amazon brings you into its ecosystem of services and products, with the hope that you'll buy more through Amazon with that gadget.Tired of those extra ads? Here's how you can turn them off.How to stop Alexa from asking you to buy stuffYou can stop Alexa from asking if you want ideas for stuff to buy by changing some of the notification settings in the Alexa app on your phone. Here's what you do:Open the Alexa app on your iPhone or Android phone.Choose Settings.Tap Notifications.Select Amazon Shopping.Turn off the option to "receive personalized recommendations and deals based on your shopping activity."Also turn off "requests to rate products you've purchased" if you don't want those messages, either.Turn off the option to receive notifications for "Order Updates (Inc. Subscribe & Save.)" If you don't want messages about saving money by subscribing for monthly deliveries.VIDEO3:0303:03Amazon unveils new hardware: Echo devices, Fire TV and new gaming streaming service LunaPower LunchSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/12/03, VIDEO3:5903:59Joe Biden administration will join the Paris agreement, combat climate change: CEO of MSCIThe ExchangeMany of the nation's top companies, including Amazon, Goldman Sachs, Ford, Google and Walmart, are calling on the new administration to address climate change and come up with long-term solutions in response to concerns from investors, customers, communities and employees.In a letter to President-elect Joe Biden and the new Congress, 42 corporations urged the government to rejoin the Paris Agreement and enact ambitious climate policies now.The statement, which represented a cross section of corporate America, said it would support Biden's decision to recommit to emissions reduction goals under the accord after President Donald Trump formally withdrew the country from the climate change agreement.Read MoreShareholders challenge the companies they invest in to promote good in the worldIn impact investing, returns are not the only rewardHow to decide if sustainable investing is right for youIn recent years, there has been increased momentum among investors and industry leaders alike to do something positive to address the world's environmental challenges.Indeed, the companies that have done the best job of articulating their socially responsible positions are seeing long-term benefits to the planet and their bottom line.  VIDEO1:3501:35Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated ESG investing trend: CEOStreet Signs Europe"Record wildfires, flooding, hurricanes and other extreme weather are upending lives and livelihoods," the letter said, which was organized by the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions as part of a Climate Innovation 2050 initiative.A firefighter walks along a hillside covered with flame retardant during the Elkhorn Fire near Red Bluff, California, U.S. August 29, 2020.Matthew McFarland | via ReutersAlthough the letter did not outline a specific plan, it said action must be taken to reduce "these grave risks."The companies also said each would take major steps to reducing their own environmental impact.Further, investing in clean energy and climate protection "can contribute significantly to our economic recovery" and "will create jobs, drive growth, and strengthen U.S. competitiveness."Together, the 42 companies joining the statement have nearly 5 million employees and generate $3 trillion in annual revenues.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2020/10/13, In this articleAMZNThe Amazon headquarters sits virtually empty on March 10, 2020 in downtown Seattle, Washington. In response to the coronavirus outbreak, Amazon recommended all employees in its Seattle office to work from home, leaving much of downtown nearly void of people.John Moore | Getty ImagesAmazon employees are signing an internal petition calling on the company to give workers time off to vote.The petition urges Amazon to provide its entire U.S. workforce with paid time off to vote on or before election day. In the United States, Election Day takes place on Tuesday, November 3. Many states also allow voters to cast their ballots early at polling sites ahead of Election Day.As of Tuesday evening, more than 4,000 tech employees have signed onto the petition, which was submitted via Amazon's internal ticketing system. Employees upvoted the petition by marking "+1" or commenting below the post.A number of U.S. companies have given their employees time off to vote, including Facebook, Apple, Uber, Twitter, Starbucks and Walmart. Amazon, with 876,000 employees worldwide as of August, is the second largest private employer in the U.S., behind Walmart.Amazon employees who supported the petition criticized Amazon for being "below the bar on the issue" compared to other U.S. corporations, according to responses viewed by CNBC.Employees also expressed concern that the pandemic will create further challenges for employees balancing the need to vote and report to work, pointing to long lines at polling sites and confusion around where and how to vote. Long lines and hours-long wait times have already cropped up at polling sites in states where early voting has opened, including Texas and Georgia."We are less than a month away from the 2020 U.S. election," says the petition, which was previously reported by NBC News.  "I strongly urge the company to provide the entire U.S. employee workforce with a paid day/shift off that can be used anytime between now and Election Day on Nov. 3. This additional paid day/shift must be available to all employees every year."An Amazon spokesperson told CNBC that the company lets employees ask for time off individually."In all 47 states with in person voting, employees that lack adequate time before or after their scheduled workday to vote, can request and be provided excused time off," the spokesperson added. "The number of hours and pay provided to employees varies by state in line with local laws."The action was organized by Amazon Employees for Climate Justice, an employee advocacy group that has previously called for the company to develop a comprehensive climate change plan, among other initiatives. More recently, the group has voiced support for warehouse workers who criticized Amazon's response to the coronavirus pandemic.AECJ also scrutinized Amazon's labor practices after two of the group's leaders, former Amazon user experience designers Emily Cunningham and Maren Costa, were fired in April. Both Cunningham and Costa said they were fired in retaliation for the continued criticism of Amazon and after supporting warehouse workers' coronavirus safety concerns. Amazon said it fired Cunningham and Costa for "repeatedly violating internal policies."VIDEO1:1801:18Amazon reports 19K front-line workers test positive for Covid-19The News with Shepard Smith

2020/11/09, Amazon.com delivery trucks in Richmond, California, U.S., on Tuesday, Oct. 13, 2020.David Paul Morris | Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon said on Monday it had opened three more logistics centers in Brazil to take advantage of the boost the Covid-19 pandemic has given to e-commerce in South America's largest economy.The new units are already operating in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul and the capital city of Brasilia.They increase the number of Amazon logistics centers in Brazil to eight, expanding its reach to all corners of the vast country.The expansion, which adds 75,000 square meters (807,000 square feet) of distribution space, is Amazon's biggest since it began operating in Brazil in 2012. It will create 1,500 direct jobs, the company said in a statement.Alex Szapiro, Amazon's chief executive in Brazil, said the new centers will allow the company to immediately raise the number of cities where Amazon Prime customers can receive deliveries within two business days to over 500 from 400."Brazil is the country with the fastest growth in Amazon Prime subscriptions," Szapiro told Reuters, referring to the company's loyalty program, which was launched in Brazil in September last year.In recent months, thousands of Brazilian businesses have migrated to e-commerce platforms as a result of social distancing measures and lockdown measures.Despite the gradual easing of the measures, the migration to digital sales has continued.Last week, MercadoLibre, Latin America's e-commerce leader, announced that its net revenue in the region soared nearly 150% in the third quarter, measured in local currencies.MercadoLibre's operation in Brazil, which accounts for more than half of its total business, more than doubled.Other companies in Brazil, including Via Varejo, GPA and Magazine Luiza, are buying up logistics startups to ride the same e-commerce wave.

2020/09/29, Amazon fulfillment center warehouse.Getty ImagesInjuries inside Amazon's warehouses continue to be on the rise, despite the company's claims that it has invested tens of millions of dollars to improve safety measures, according to a wide-ranging probe published Tuesday by Reveal from the Center for Investigative Reporting.The investigation found that Amazon's injury rates have steadily increased each year since 2016, based on internal safety reports and weekly injury numbers from 150 Amazon fulfillment centers that were obtained by Reveal.Amazon told CNBC in a statement that it "strongly refutes the claims" that it misled the public on its workplace injury rates. The company disputed Reveal's characterization of "serious injuries," noting that the metric, referred to by OSHA as a "DART rate," can include any type of injury, "for example a small strain or sprain." However, Amazon's statement does not dispute Reveal's reporting that injury rates rose."While we often accommodate employees with restrictions so that they can continue to work with full pay and benefits, we don't believe an employer should be penalized when it encourages an associate to remain away from work if that will better promote their healing," Amazon said. "As a company, while we constantly learn and improve from the past, we focus on inventing programs that create a safer work environment, and we provide comprehensive health benefits starting on day one of employment."Amazon added that it continues to see "improvements in injury prevention and reduction" through things like providing workspace assistance equipment, using forklift guardrails to separate equipment from pedestrians and programs focused on improved ergonomics.In 2019, Amazon recorded 14,000 serious injuries across its fulfillment centers, which equates to an injury rate of 7.7 serious injuries per 100 employees, Reveal found. That's nearly double the most recent industry standard, according to Reveal. Amazon may also be underreporting warehouse worker injuries. A physician who inspected Amazon warehouses for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration found that workers at some Amazon facilities were being discouraged from reporting injuries and seeking outside medical care, according to Reveal.Another company initiative designed to curtail "lost-time injuries," or those requiring time off work, ended up preventing them from being counted as lost time, according to Reveal, directly contradicting Amazon executives' framing that such injuries were down due to enhanced safety measures. The internal reports also showed that injury rates were higher at Amazon facilities that are heavily automated, as well as during "peak season," which refers to Amazon's annual Prime Day discount event and the holiday shopping period. Reveal found that workers at robotic fulfillment centers were expected to pick up and scan roughly 400 items an hour, compared with the standard rate of 100 items per hour at other facilities.Additionally, monthly injury rates from 2019 showed the highest spike in reported incidents around Prime Day, which is typically held in July, while other internal safety reports indicated a lack of on-site safety officials, according to Reveal.Amazon has increasingly introduced robotic systems in its warehouses since its acquisition of Kiva Systems for $775 million in 2012. Robots and machines play a growing part in the process of picking, packing and shipping orders inside Amazon warehouses. As Amazon has expanded the use of robots in its facilities, the company has maintained that the technology helps to "increase efficiency and safety."The company's safety record has been a topic of controversy in the past. A separate Reveal investigation found that serious injuries are much higher at Amazon facilities compared with national averages. Additionally, an investigation by NBC News last year found that Amazon's delivery service partners, third-party contractors that deliver packages for Amazon, implement lax safety measures. Read the full story by Reveal from the Center for Investigative Reporting here. VIDEO1:5301:53Amazon spent $4B on Covid-related costs in Q2Closing Bell

2020/09/17, A US Postal worker delivers Amazon boxes outside of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on October 11, 2018 in New York City.Spencer Platt | Getty ImagesPresident Donald Trump has routinely blamed Amazon for problems with the U.S. Postal Service, but new documents show the e-commerce giant remains a large and lucrative customer for the USPS.The USPS circulated "fact-checking statements" internally that buck Trump's criticisms of Amazon and shed new light on its relationship with the company, according to documents obtained via a Freedom of Information Act request by watchdog group American Oversight. The documents were first reported by The Washington Post. Trump has claimed that Amazon costs the Postal Service "billions," but the USPS said in the fact-checking statements, circulated earlier this year, that Amazon was the Postal Service's "largest customer" in fiscal 2019, generating about $3.9 billion in revenue and $1.6 billion in profit. The Postal Service also countered Trump's oft-repeated argument that it needs to raise prices to make money on deliveries, the documents show. By contrast, the USPS said it had the largest price increases "in recent history" from 2018 to 2019, including a 10% price increase for its Parcel Select service, which is used by Amazon."USPS would see a net contribution loss with a significant share of its package business if prices were to be raised significantly," according to the documents. "USPS competitors could take share in these instances."According to the documents, the agency also expressed concern in April that, if it were to raise prices, it would "cede ground" to competitors and Amazon's growing logistics network."Amazon has been aggressively insourcing volume with Amazon logistics, sending two billion-plus packages in fiscal 2019, which primarily cuts into USPS' share," the documents state.White House spokesman Brian Morgenstern said in a statement that the Postal Service "has been losing billions of dollars for more than a decade and is projected to lose tens of billions more in the next decade." Morgenstern added that Trump has created a Postal Reform task force to "make recommendations for improving the financial future of the USPS."Coronavirus pressureThe documents provide a glimpse into the extent of the Postal Service's relationship with Amazon, which became complicated months into the coronavirus outbreak.Amazon relies on several carriers to deliver packages, such as UPS and FedEx, and is building its own network of contracted delivery partners. But the documents illustrate how Amazon continues to rely on the Postal Service.The Postal Service delivered more than 1.5 billion Amazon packages, or roughly 30% of its total volume, in fiscal 2019, according to the documents. The USPS delivers Amazon packages that are fulfilled by Amazon warehouses, known as Fulfillment by Amazon, and orders that are fulfilled independently by third-party merchants. "The majority of revenue and volume from Amazon" is through FBA, the Postal Service stated, according to the documents. The Postal Service faced pressure from Amazon in April, as the pair were in the process of negotiating new pricing agreements. The USPS held a teleconference with Amazon on April 9, wherein Amazon voiced concerns about the agency's "viability to them as continued shipping partner," according to the documents."Amazon made it very clear that the USPS is alone, globally, among their partners in having this pricing uncertainty," the documents state. "Additionally, Amazon is concerned that any stimulus from the Treasury will come with stipulations, causing concern and further risk."Amazon pressed the Postal Service to answer questions about its financial woes, which were exacerbated by the pandemic. Among the questions it asked were: "What does the USPS look like in the next few weeks, the next few months and the next several years?"Amazon declined to comment on the nature of the company's relationship with the USPS or what members of Amazon's leadership were present during the April 9 meeting with the Postal Service."For more than two decades, Amazon has partnered closely with the United States Postal Service to invent and deliver for our customers, which has resulted in significant revenue for the USPS and thousands of American jobs," Amazon spokesperson Rena Lunak said in a statement. "USPS continues to be a great partner in serving Amazon customers."VIDEO3:1103:11CNBC Investigates: How reliable is the U.S. Postal Service?Squawk Alley

2020/09/18, A worker assembles a box for delivery at the Amazon fulfillment center in Baltimore, Maryland, U.S., April 30, 2019.Clodagh Kilcoyne | ReutersThe U.S. Department of Justice on Friday accused six individuals of participating in a scheme to bribe Amazon employees and contractors to gain "an unfair advantage" on the company's online marketplace.Federal prosecutors allege that, since at least 2017, the individuals used bribery and fraud to benefit third-party merchants selling goods on Amazon's marketplace. In some cases, individuals worked with Amazon employees to reinstate suspended products that had been flagged as unsafe, according to the indictment.It describes a complex, coordinated effort by outside consultants to allegedly bribe Amazon employees for valuable data on third-party sellers' competitors, as well as privileged access to information about Amazon's internal algorithms. They also bribed Amazon employees for access to benefits that violate Amazon's own rules, like selling products in restricted categories.The individuals allegedly served as consultants for third-party sellers who sold a range of goods including household items, consumer electronics and dietary supplements. Several of the individuals not only served as consultants, but also sold products as third-party sellers on Amazon.  As a result of the alleged conspiracy, the individuals secured unfair competitive benefits for third-party seller accounts that are worth more than $100 million, according to the DOJ.Amazon's sprawling marketplace, which hosts millions of third-party sellers, now accounts for approximately 60% of the company's e-commerce sales. While the marketplace has helped Amazon bring in record revenue, it also hosts counterfeit, unsafe and even expired goods. The company has said it invests hundreds of millions of dollars per year to ensure products are safe and compliant.Amazon told CNBC in a statement that "there is no place for fraud at Amazon." The company added that it has systems in place to detect suspicious behavior by sellers or employees, and teams that investigate and stop prohibited activity. It's unclear whether Amazon has fired the employees allegedly involved in the bribery scheme."We are especially disappointed by the actions of this limited group of now former employees, and appreciate the collaboration and support from law enforcement to bring them and the bad actors they were entwined with to justice," Amazon added.The six individuals charged by the DOJ are Ephraim Rosenberg, 45, a resident of Brooklyn, New York; Joseph Nilsen, 31, and Kristen Leccese, 32, of New York, New York; Hadis Nuhanovic, 30, of Acworth, Georgia; Rohit Kadimessty, 27, of Northridge, California; and Nishad Kunju, 31, of Hyderabad, India.They're each charged with conspiracy to use a communication facility to commit commercial bribery, conspiracy to access a protected computer without authorization, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and wire fraud.Conspiracy to use a communication facility to commit commercial bribery and to gain access to a protected computer carry a maximum sentence of five years in prison, while conspiracy to commit wire fraud and wire fraud carry a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.Bribes to bring back suspended accounts, productsThe individuals allegedly paid bribes to at least 10 different Amazon employees and contractors, including Kunju, who worked as a seller support associate in Hyderabad, where Amazon has a sprawling corporate campus. After allegedly accepting bribes while he was employed at Amazon, Kunju became an outside consultant for third-party sellers, during which he "recruited and paid bribes to his former colleagues," the DOJ said. In exchange for those bribes, "corrupted" employees and contractors allegedly helped to reinstate suspended third-party seller accounts and product listings on Amazon's marketplace, including dietary supplements suspended due to consumer safety complaints, household electronics that had been identified as flammable and consumer goods flagged for intellectual property violations. Amazon employees manually reinstated the suspended accounts and product listings, and approved "baseless and fraudulent" appeals submitted by merchants and, in some cases, drafted by the employees themselves, according to the indictment.The employees also "facilitated attacks" against third-party sellers' competitors by suspending their accounts, and by sharing information about their revenues, customers suppliers and ad campaigns. They also provided information about Amazon's internal algorithms, enabling consultants to "flood competitors' product listings with fictitious negative product reviews," the DOJ said.The individuals allegedly bribed Amazon employees for access to benefits, breaking Amazon's third-party seller rules. Employees increased third-party sellers' storage limits in Amazon warehouses, enabled them to offer products in restricted categories and provided sellers with "inside knowledge" about the most successful ad campaigns and profitable products, the DOJ alleges.Amazon has previously faced issues with internal corruption among employees. In 2018, The Wall Street Journal reported that Amazon was investigating suspected data leaks and bribes by Amazon employees, who offered internal data to third-party merchants to help them compete on the marketplace.VIDEO0:4800:48Amazon adds retired general Keith Alexander to its board of directorsClosing Bell

2020/11/17, GoodRx signage on the outside of the Nasdaq on the day of its IPO, September 23, 2020.Source: GoodRxShares of GoodRx, a company that finds users prescription drugs at a discount, closed down 22.5% Tuesday after Amazon announced its biggest move yet into the pharmacy space.The e-commerce giant revealed Amazon Pharmacy before the bell on Tuesday, which will allow customers in the United States to order prescription medications for home delivery. Amazon Prime members will get free delivery.The announcement also spooked investors in traditional pharmacy giants. Shares of CVS and Walgreens closed down 8% and 9%, respectively, while Rite Aid's stock dropped 16%.Amazon shares were little changed.Doctors will be able to send prescription requests directly to Amazon Pharmacy. Patients can also request to transfer their prescriptions from an existing retailer, like Rite Aid or CVS.GoodRx, meanwhile, offers users a free list of discount cards and coupons to cut down costs of their prescription medication. The company collects fees from the pharmacy benefits managers it works with.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO2:3302:33Amazon launches online pharmacy in the United StatesSquawk Box

2020/11/16, In this articleDRH(L-R) TNT, TBS, truTV, HBO & HBO Max Content Acquisition EVP Michael Quigley, HBO Max CCO and TNT, TBS, & truTV President Kevin Reilly and HBO Max Head of Original Content Sarah Aubrey appear onstage during the HBO Max executive session segment of the 2020 Winter Television Critics Association Press Tour at The Langham Huntington, Pasadena on January 15, 2020 in Pasadena, California.Emma McIntyreWarnerMedia's HBO Max will begin rolling out this week on Amazon Fire TV and Fire tablets, roughly six months after its launch.HBO Max debuted in May for phones and a variety of smart TV platforms, but was notably absent from two of the largest streaming TV platforms: Amazon Fire TV and Roku. It has yet to launch on Roku. Starting Tuesday, the HBO app on Fire devices will automatically update to HBO Max, and users can sign in with their existing HBO credentials. Current HBO Max customers can access the app on their Fire devices using their existing credentials. New customers can subscribe to the streaming service directly in the app, for $14.99 per month. It's also available for people who already subscribe to HBO through Amazon Prime Video Channels.The terms of WarnerMedia's and HBO's deal were not disclosed. The companies had been in negotiations for several months.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.VIDEO16:5816:58How YouTube dominates internet videoTech

2020/09/25, Amazon's Luna cloud gaming service.AmazonLONDON — As Microsoft battles it out with Sony in this year's edition of the console wars, it's now got another rival to worry about.Amazon announced Thursday that it would launch its own cloud gaming service, a kind of "Netflix for games" that forgoes the need for consoles or dedicated hardware to play video games. Called Luna, the platform comes with a library of 100 titles and users can play with a special Luna controller.The entry of Amazon into the raft of companies developing such game-streaming services has long been rumored. The company's announcement now marks an official challenge to the likes of Microsoft and Google, which have both recently launched their own respective cloud gaming products.But Amazon is taking a slightly different approach to those companies. Instead of going for an all-access subscription — like Microsoft is with Xbox Game Pass — Amazon is launching so-called "channels" for a range of publishers, for which users have to pay a monthly fee. Only Ubisoft and Amazon itself have been confirmed as companies included in that offering so far, with Amazon's Luna+ channel  priced at $6 a month.And though Luna is similar to Google's Stadia platform in that users can play games from the cloud across PC and mobile devices, it diverges from the company's business model as players won't have to pay extra for individual games.Amazon also said Luna will be available Apple devices, but only as a web app. This is a step up from Microsoft and Google, which have been unable to add cloud gaming functionality on iPhones due to restrictions within Apple's App Store that require pre-approval for each game. Apple recently loosened its stance slightly, allowing game streaming services that link to games via separate apps. Apple has a competing game subscription service called Apple Arcade.Can Luna succeed?Amazon poses a significant threat to Microsoft and Google given its prowess in cloud computing. The firm's Amazon Web Services, or AWS, division is the biggest player in the space, with Microsoft's Azure trailing closely behind. Amazon also has a successful gaming brand in Twitch, the live streaming platform it bought for $970 million in 2014. The decision to integrate Luna with Twitch could drive growth for the cloud gaming offering.But does that mean it will be successful? Not necessarily. There are numerous hurdles for Amazon to overcome, not least the issue of finding enough content to make its service worth paying for. Google Stadia notably struggled on this front, launching with just 22 titles at launch, but has since gathered momentum as more games have been added."Unlike Microsoft and Sony, Amazon lacks the core games business — something that has been a huge hurdle to overcome for Google Stadia," George Jijiashvili, senior games analyst at market research firm Omdia, told CNBC.VIDEO1:4401:44Amazon unveils new products, including a home security droneNews Videos"Amazon has a wealth of experience in cloud infrastructure, but this does not guarantee success. Whilst AWS is clearly a huge advantage, this is only one dimension of the final offering, and the emerging features, content, Twitch integration, and monetisation models will determine the uptake of the service."While Twitch has been a boon to Amazon — especially in the midst of a viral pandemic that has seen viewership spike — the company has had less success in the development of its own games. Amazon pulled Crucible, its first big-budget game since the creation of Amazon Game Studios in 2012, from public release just a month after it launched. Another title, New World, has been delayed until early next year.Cloud gaming will no doubt be a key battleground for gaming companies in the coming years. According to Omdia, such streaming services are expected to generate $4 billion in revenues next year and a massive $12 billion by 2025. That's no insignificant chunk of an industry estimated to be worth more than $150 billion.

2020/11/04, In this articleAMZNAmazon CEO Jeff BezosAlex Wong | Getty ImagesAmazon CEO Jeff Bezos this week has sold more than $3 billion worth of shares in his company, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission compiled by OpenInsider.Bezos has accelerated his stock sales in the last year. In August, Bezos offloaded more than $3.1 billion of Amazon shares, after selling more than $4.1 billion worth of shares in February. The sales this week bring his total cash out in 2020 to more than $10.2 billion so far, which is a notable jump from 2019, when Bezos sold $2.8 billion worth of shares.Even with the latest stock sale, Bezos still owns more than 53 million shares worth nearly $170 billion, making him the richest person in the world.VIDEO0:5100:51Billionaire Ray Dalio has two pieces of advice for the average investorInvest in You: Ready. Set. Grow.The transactions were made as part of a prearranged 10b5-1 trading plan, according to the filings. Amazon declined to comment on the latest sale.Bezos has previously said he sells about $1 billion of Amazon stock each year to fund his rocket start-up, Blue Origin. Additionally, the Amazon CEO in February launched a $10 billion Earth Fund to combat the effects of climate change, which will issue grants to scientists, activists and other organizations.While Bezos hasn't yet announced the recipients of the fund, The Atlantic reported Tuesday that Bezos is expected to give $100 million each to the Nature Conservancy, the Environmental Defense Fund, the Natural Resources Defense Council and the World Wildlife Fund.VIDEO16:0216:02Many of the reviews on Amazon are fake, here's how to spot themTech

2020/09/24, VIDEO3:0303:03Amazon unveils new hardware: Echo devices, Fire TV and new gaming streaming service LunaPower LunchAmazon announced two new Fire TV products during its big online hardware event on Thursday. Amazon's Fire TV gadgets compete directly with Roku and Apple TV, offering people access to popular apps such as Disney+, Netflix, Hulu and more. Amazon says people are spending more time in front of TVs than ever before due to the spread of coronavirus. It sees the TV as the center of the household and wants to get even more features in front of users to keep them coming back. The new features may help it compete more aggressively against Roku, which still has a 50% market share of global connected TV streaming hours with strong growth opportunities, according to an analyst note from Deutsche Bank in August.The new Fire TV Stick and Fire TV Stick Lite will be the first of Amazon's streaming gadgets to offer a redesigned home screen. The new features announced Thursday will be available later this year, starting with these devices, but it will not be on them when they begin shipping next week. The changes will also come to existing Fire TV devices, beginning in the first quarter of 2021.Here's what you need to know.Easier to find stuff to watch, new user profilesThe new Amazon Fire TV interface, which includes user profiles.AmazonAmazon's vice president and general manager of Fire TV, Sandeep Gupta, told CNBC that Amazon received feedback from users suggesting the home screen was too cluttered. Amazon worked on a redesign to make it easier to find stuff to watch and to quickly jump into live TV."Today, you can search for comedies, or stuff by Tom Cruise, but we've tried to make a landing spot for when you don't know what you want to watch. This shows you stuff that's free, movies and TV shows, broader categories, apps and more," Gupta said. Gupta said the quick access to a TV guide will provide a familiar experience for people transitioning from cable TV to streaming.The new software supports up to six user profiles. That means you can log into your profile and see the shows and movies Amazon recommends to you, while your significant other can use a separate account for their own personalized recommendations. You can also create profiles for children that will show only kid-friendly content you've approved. Previously, you'd have to switch profiles inside each app, such as Netflix or Hulu, to see content recommended to you inside those apps.The latest software provides a new option to see your Ring or Alexa-ready video cameras on your TV through picture-in-picture — kind of like seeing a small window on your screen — while you're watching movies or TV shows. Finally, Amazon is expanding its Alexa voice assistant on Fire TV. Gupta told CNBC that there are billions of requests to Alexa and that it has seen an 80% growth in requests on Fire TV over the last year, although he did not provide specific figures."It's a good indication people like Alexa and are using it more to manage shopping routines, recipes, whatever it is, in a centralized place," he said. Alexa's responses now pop up and cover just a small part of the screen so you can keep watching or doing what you were without being interrupted.Video chat for Amazon Fire TV CubeThe Amazon Fire TV CubeAmazonSeparately from the Fire TV sticks, though still part of the new software that will roll out to other Amazon Fire TV gadgets during the first quarter of 2021, is new video chat support.People who own the second-generation Fire TV Cube will soon be able to add a Logitech webcam for video chat through Fire TV. It'll support Alexa video calls and, later, Zoom. It won't work on the Fire TV sticks since it requires a USB port that's only found on the Fire TV Cube.New Amazon Fire TV Sticks price and release dateThe new Amazon Fire TV StickAmazonThe Fire TV Stick and Fire TV Stick Lite are relatively similar. They'll cost $39.99 and $29.99, respectively. The Fire TV Stick offers support for newer technologies, such as HDR and Dolby Atmos if your TV and speakers support them. Neither support 4K video and are capped at 1080p, so don't buy them if you have a 4K TV and want the best quality possible.If you need 4K, look at the Fire TV Stick 4K, which costs $49.99 but doesn't ship with the new software. The Fire TV Stick 4K will receive the new software at a later date, but the new Fire TV features announced Thursday will first roll out on the new Fire TV Stick and Fire TV Stick Lite later this year. The Fire TV Stick Lite is more basic, without Dolby Atmos and some of the more advanced Wi-Fi support for more stable streaming. Both are said to be 50% faster than the last-generation Fire TV Stick, however, and both come with voice remotes that you can use to speak with Alexa to open movies, TV shows, apps and more.Pre-orders for the new Fire TV Stick and Fire TV Stick Lite begin on Thursday and they'll begin arriving to customers on Sept. 30.Correction: This story has been updated to reflect that Amazon said its new Fire TV features will be available later this year on the new Fire TV Stick and Fire TV Stick Lite and at a later date on the Fire TV Stick 4K. The new software will not be on the new devices at the time they are shipped next week.Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/10/13, In this articleAMZNVIDEO3:2303:23How to play online retail ETFs ahead of Amazon's Prime DayHalftime ReportAmazon Prime Day has arrived.Amazon's bargain-focused two-day shopping holiday on Tuesday and Wednesday highlighted consumers' shift to buying online in a difficult year for brick-and-mortar retailers. The stock is up almost 89% year to date, driving online retail-based exchange-traded funds that hold the name.The three ETFs with the most Amazon exposure on the market — Fidelity's MSCI Consumer Discretionary Index ETF (FDIS), ProShares' Long Online/Short Stores ETF (CLIX), and ProShares' Online Retail ETF (ONLN) — are up 38%, 85% and 93% this year, respectively. ONLN hit a 52-week high Tuesday.Four key factors have been driving investors to e-commerce, Simeon Hyman, global investment strategist at ProShares, told CNBC's "ETF Edge" on Monday.First, "the transition is earlier than you think. You have not missed it," he said. "Only 16% of retail sales were online in Q2. So, 84 cents were spent in brick-and-mortar stores and a lot of them were closed."The coronavirus pandemic's boost to business also can't be discounted, Hyman said, adding that it helped push retail sales to 16% from 11%."Think about a quadrupling of penetration in the laggard, groceries, and also the stickiness of changes in share from folks like Chewy — which are 70% subscriptions, so, those new customers are sticky — or Etsy, which has so many more eyeballs after 15% of their sales came from masks," he said.Third are the fundamentals, the strategist said. Walmart has clawed its way to No. 2 for online retail, but its margins have been shrinking over the last 10 years while Amazon's have doubled, he said."The fundamentals point towards the online folks," he said. "Finally, if you see acceleration in performance like that, you worry about valuation. Let me give you the following surprising note: If you look at the relative valuation of our online basket, the ProShares online retail basket, and you compare that to the tech sector, we're trading at half the price-to-book [value] of three or four years ago. So, at least on a relative basis — I know it's hard to do absolute valuation these days — not as expensive as you might think."Ed Rosenberg, senior vice president and head of ETFs at American Century, said Amazon's influence is evident even in his firm's Focused Dynamic Growth ETF (FDG), launched earlier this year."Even the active managers recognize that in the retail space, Amazon is the play right now," he said in the same "ETF Edge" interview.Amazon's "downstream impact" also matters, Rosenberg said."If you're buying online, where else does that impact [go]?" he said. "Just using that fund as the example, one of the top 10 holdings is also Mastercard and I think you're seeing some of the downstream impact of people using credit cards and seeing growth in that area as well, whether it's Mastercard, Visa, American Express, to take advantage of what's happening with Amazon and Prime Day as well as being online."VIDEO7:0407:04Two online retail ETFs to watch ahead of Amazon Prime DayETF EdgeDisclaimer

2020/10/13, Homesick candlesSource: HomesickFor retailers looking to compete with Amazon around its annual Prime Day event, it's not all about offering deep discounts to catch customers' attention on the internet.Start-ups like Warby Parker, Allbirds, Outdoor Voices and Everlane rarely offer promotions. Many of these companies have built their businesses online around a playbook that essentially says: We will never go on sale."As a brand, we don't have sales," said Brian Berger, CEO of the direct-to-consumer men's sweatpants maker Mack Weldon. "We have a permanent loyalty program. ... And that gets us out of the cycle of having to think about promotions and retraining customers in a way we wouldn't want them to behave. We want them to shop whenever they want."Instead, around Prime Day and through this holiday season, Berger said, Mack Weldon will be boosting its marketing efforts, especially on social media. The brand launched its first-ever television campaign in June, which it continues to run. Its sweatpants have surged in popularity during the pandemic, with consumers looking for comfortable clothing. At one point early on during the Covid-19 crisis, Mack Weldon was selling 1,000 pairs of sweatpants per day, Berger said."During the holidays, you have to break through the noise and have a great offer in the market," Berger said. "And there are other ways to break through the noise," besides being promotional, he said.Men's activewear brand Vuori also launched its first-ever TV ad campaign on Monday.'Transcend dealbuster culture'According to Harley Finkelstein, president of Shopify, the e-commerce platform for many direct-to-consumer brands including sneaker maker Allbirds, "deals are just one of the things shoppers are paying attention to" during the holidays."This is the year that purchases with purpose will transcend dealbuster culture," he said. "More so than in any other year, consumers will vote with their wallets for merchants that align with their values — choosing to support Black-owned businesses, local merchants, and socially and environmentally conscious brands."Cookware brand Abbio won't be on sale, either, during Prime Day."One of the advantages of having a strong direct channel is we don't need to compete with Amazon on Prime Day," said Jonathan Wahl, Abbio co-founder and CEO. "It's a different customer and a different business strategy altogether."Prime Day is "all about the 'deal' as opposed to the value of the brand or the offering," Wahl said.Still, some brands might be choosing to break from the unofficial direct-to-consumer playbook. Some already have — in a bid to try to move inventory piled high in stock rooms and coax consumers to spend a little extra during the global health crisis.Last month, luggage brand Away held its first sale in its roughly five-year history, promising deals of up to 50% off its bags — some of which retail for more than $400. In the thick of the coronavirus pandemic, Away said the sale, which was held both online and in its stores, outpaced the brand's performance during every prior Black Friday and Cyber Monday combined, exceeding even its "most aggressive expectations." Some customers reported website outages because of the heightened traffic around the event, while others later reported their shipments were delayed. They took to the company's official Twitter account to complain.While Away doesn't currently have plans for another sale, during the holidays it will be releasing a number of new products, according to Brendan Lewis, vice president of communications and corporate affairs at Away. Meantime, apparel brand Everlane also ran a 25% off sitewide sale during the pandemic, claiming customers could find discounts on items that "usually don't go on sale." One email sent to customers in March about the event read: "We've never done it before. But there are a lot of firsts right now."VIDEO4:3104:31Here are the apparel brands finding strength in the pandemic recoverySquawk on the Street"Most direct-to-consumer brands are nimble enough that they can adapt and roll with the changes that are happening," said Taylor Sicard, co-founder of Win Brands Group, which owns a number of brands including the candles company Homesick. "This entire year is a great example — brands have had to adapt week by week, month over month."Partnering with AmazonTwo of Win's brands, Homesick and ring maker Qalo, will hold sales, for 10%, 15% and 20% off, around Prime Day this year. Shoppers can actually find both of them on Amazon, in addition to their own websites. Qalo has been selling on Amazon since 2014, and Homesick since Nov. 2017."A lot of brands are hesitant to go in that direction, and there is good reason for it," Sicard said about selling some its products on Amazon. "It is a very restrictive platform. You don't have analytics on data ... and then you also have very limited activity with the audience because Amazon owns the audience, not you as a brand.""But the way I see Amazon, I treat it the same way I would a big-box store, just on the internet," he said.Some other direct-to-consumer brands agree. The sheets start-up Brooklinen, mattress brand Casper and dog accessories maker Barkbox can also be found on Amazon.Benefitting from Amazon's annual Prime Day surge could be enough reason for some retailers to join its platform. Worldwide sales from the 48-hour shopping event, which kicked off Tuesday, are forecast by eMarketer to jump 43% from 2019 levels to $9.91 billion.But for retailers not on Amazon, there's also good reason to compete with another sales event of their own.Sixty-three percent of consumers say they are "very likely" to compare Prime Day promotions with other retailers' deals before they make a purchase, according to The NPD Group, which tracks the receipts of more than 130,000 consumers. And this year, with a Prime Day being held in October rather than July, 18% of consumers told NPD they believe they'll find the best holiday deals around Prime Day, only slightly trailing the 20% of consumers who think that will come on Black Friday. Cyber Monday was the third most popular option in NPD's poll.According to Finkelstein, 55% of Shopify merchants believe consumers will start their holiday shopping even earlier this year."I do think that, at the end of the day, if you're going to be promotional, a huge part of maintaining brand equity is the storytelling component," said Mark Chou, founder of Bradhurst Ventures, which advises consumer-facing brands."If you were to just discount and say nothing else, in some ways it's almost too obvious what you're doing," he said. "Consumers are not dumb, and they understand some industries are challenged. But if you're able to still tell a story around why you're doing something it can be brand accretive and not dilutive."VIDEO2:3202:32Teen spending drops to record lows amid the pandemicRetail

2020/10/12, An Amazon Prime package.Andrew Harrer | Bloomberg | ContributorA late Amazon Prime Day means an early start to the holiday shopping season this week. The annual shopping event has become a holiday in its own right, with July 15 — one of last year's Prime Days — trailing behind only Cyber Monday and Black Friday for online shopping last year, according to retail research firm NPD Group. It will span two days this year, starting at 3 a.m. ET Tuesday and lasting through Wednesday. Retailers are gearing up for an early start to holiday shopping by picking products to promote, using tech tools to manage their supply chain and getting employees ready. By dangling good deals, they hope to excite early holiday shoppers and stretch out an all-important season for their bottom line.Analysts predict the e-commerce event will be the biggest in Amazon's history, as more Americans stretch out their search for holiday gifts and do more of it online than in previous years because of the pandemic. Amazon's revenue from Prime Day is expected to jump to about $7.5 billion, according to analysts from JPMorgan, up 42% from its estimated $5.3 billion in revenue last year. That represented Amazon's largest global shopping event.Robby Ohmes, a discount retail analyst for Bank of America Securities, said retailers big and small want to "participate in that energy." Target will have "Deal Days," and Best Buy will kick off Black Friday sales on those same days. Walmart will have its "Big Save Event" from 7 p.m. ET Sunday through Thursday."[Amazon] Prime Day helps everybody who sells online," he said. "It brings everybody to the table, and everyone does something special to try to participate in it."The right stuffThis year, retailers have had to predict what consumers may buy as gifts and for themselves during an economic and public health crisis.Ashwani Monga, a Rutgers University-Newark marketing professor who studies consumer psychology, said the typical rule of thumb with gift-giving — buying items that people wouldn't buy for themselves — may be flipped on its head.He said he expects shoppers to gravitate more than usual to practical gifts: Think winter coats, snowshoes and hiking equipment that allow friends and family to gather outdoors during chillier months. They're also looking for kitchen supplies that elevate cooking as family and friends steer clear of restaurants. A fire pit may be on their gift list this year, turning a backyard into a cozy destination where neighbors can gather but stay socially distanced.On the other hand, he said, retailers may use promotions to push items that customers have largely ignored during the pandemic — such as dresses and watches — that appeal to their hope for a return to normal life.Retailers' early lists of deals span from toys to household tools. Walmart's list, for example, includes a Super Mario Party video game for Nintendo Switch that's $39.99, a Pioneer Woman 6 quart Instant Pot for $49, a Tzumi Ion Robotic Vacuum for $99 and women's rain boots from Hunter for $69.99.And some of Best Buy's discounted items, such as laptops that start at $119.99, could double as supplies for the home office or remote classroom.Leveraging dataRetailers' use of technology has gained greater importance this holiday season, said Jill Standish, who leads Accenture's retail practice. She said nearly every retailer will look to advanced analytics, machine learning and new sources of customer data to smooth out their operations as they enter the busy period.They also have to figure out where to place their inventory, so it's available whether consumers buy a toy at the store, get it delivered to their doorstep or pick it up at the curb."If you're a retailer right now, we're flying into a bit of a fog," she said. "The one thing you need when flying into a fog is instrumentation."Retailers can use those sophisticated tools to guide techniques, from grouping like items together in the warehouse to reducing split shipments, she said.Dan McKone, managing director at consulting firm L.E.K., said retailers can count on deeply discounted products selling at a higher rate and stock accordingly. They can use technology to go a step further, identifying correlations between what else customers typically put in their virtual basket when they buy a certain sales item. They can run predictive scenarios to minimize out-of-stock goods. And they can look for clues in search data, which indicate where shoppers are clicking.Retailers have been able to anticipate a gradual increase in e-commerce sales each holiday season, as more sales shift online. This year, he said, the pandemic makes that more of an educated guess.Staffing upBig-box retailers and Amazon have tried to keep up with a flurry of packing and shipping during the pandemic. They're gearing up for online shopping to intensify starting this week with Prime Day. That's meant thousands of hires and different expectations for employees.Amazon geared up for an earlier and longer "peak season" by fully staffing its warehouses and requiring employees to work overtime. The company has hired 175,000 warehouse and delivery workers during the pandemic, keeping more than 70% of them. It's opened more than 150 last-mile delivery stations between March and October, which could help it speed packages to the doors of holiday shoppers.Walmart is doing its first significant holiday hiring effort in five years, despite a spree throughout the pandemic. It's adding 20,000 seasonal employees who will work at its fulfillment centers. The company already hired more than 500,000 employees across its U.S. locations since March.And Target expects to hire about 130,000 seasonal workers for the holidays, about the same number as last holiday season, along with giving its employees additional hours. More of them, however, will have a job description related to online shopping. Twice as many Target employees will be dedicated to same-day curbside and in-store pickup of online purchases compared with the first half of the year. More employees will work at distribution centers, making sure items are in stock at stores and ready to ship. And store employees will get cross-training so they can help run out an online purchase to a customer's car or pack up a box to send to their doorstep.Target CEO Brian Cornell has said a major theme of the pandemic will spill over into the holidays: flexibility. He said the retailer and its workforce will stay nimble as the outlook remains unclear.VIDEO3:1403:14Why Black Friday may finally be an event of the pastPower Lunch

2020/10/12, VIDEO3:4903:49Dana Telsey on Amazon Prime Day: "It is the kickoff to the Black Friday and holiday season"Worldwide ExchangeEven as consumer spending has slowed amid the coronavirus crisis, e-commerce sales are soaring — largely thanks to Amazon.Prime Day, which was originally slated for July but postponed due to the pandemic, is turning into one of the biggest shopping events of the year. The 48-hour sales event runs through Wednesday, Oct. 14.Over the course of two days, more than 1 million items will be discounted, according to the retail giant, including intermittent "Lightning Deals," for Prime members. More from Personal Finance:Here are the best deals on back-to-school suppliesWhat to watch out for with retail credit cards14% of Americans have wiped out their emergency savings"There is always one thing everybody goes for," said Julie Ramhold, a consumer analyst at DealNews.com, of the two-day shopping event.  Last year, it was the Amazon coat, Crest Whitestrips and 23andMe. This year, it will likely be geared toward people staying in, she said. "I wouldn't be surprised if it was a fire pit."Other top contenders include iRobot Roomba or Shark vacuums and the always popular Instant Pot. Sara Skirboll, a shopping and trends expert at RetailMeNot, said she is betting on smart home devices, televisions, laptops, hand tools and appliances.VIDEO1:4501:45Pandemic has upended how, where and what consumers are shopping for: Pro4ma founderClosing BellAlready, the Toshiba 32-inch Smart HD Fire TV is marked down more than 30% to $119.99, while Levi's, Barbie and Hot Wheels toys, and Dewalt and Craftsman tools will all be 40% off, according to Amazon.Not surprisingly, Amazon devices, such as the Ring Video Doorbell or Kindle, will also be deeply discounted, with 45% off Fire tablets and the Echo Dot marked down 60% to $18.99.Typically, about 40% of the deals on Prime Day are home- and garden-related, according to Ramhold.That may prove even more desirable now that Americans are spending much more time at home amid the coronavirus outbreak.If it's one of those 4K big-screen TVs you're after or a Nintendo Switch, be ready to pounce.Sara Skirbollshopping and trends expert at RetailMeNotTo best navigate Prime Day, Ramhold advises shoppers to download the Amazon app and scroll through upcoming deals, then mark the items you are interested in as "watching" — you'll receive a notification when the price drops.When a deal is live, add the item to your cart immediately. Some Lightning Deals can sell out quickly, Skirboll said. Once it is in your cart, you'll have 15 minutes to decide whether to complete the purchase."Amazon Prime Day's best bargains are available in limited quantities," she said. "As a Prime member, you'll get advance notice, but if it's one of those 4K big-screen TVs you're after or a Nintendo Switch, be ready to pounce before they're all gone."If there is a specific product that you are set on and you don't see it in upcoming sales, you can create a wish list and Amazon will alert you if it does become part of a Prime Day deal.VIDEO14:3314:33How Target gets you to spend moneyHookedOther retailers are also starting holiday deals as early as October and extending them throughout the holiday season. Target announced its own sales event — Target Deal Days — during the same two-day period. It said it will have more than double the digital deals it offered last year on electronics, beauty items, toys and more. Walmart said it will feature Black Friday-like savings during its "Big Save Event," which starts the evening of Oct. 11 and runs through Oct. 15. The deals will include $50 off of a Pioneer Woman 6-quart Instant Pot and a 55-inch JVC 4K HDR Roku Smart TV for $248.  Subscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2020/09/17, Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos announces the co-founding of The Climate Pledge at the National Press Club on September 19, 2019, in Washington.Paul Morigi | Getty Images | AmazonAmazon on Thursday announced the first recipients of its $2 billion Climate Pledge Fund. The Climate Pledge Fund, launched by Amazon in June, is designed to invest in "sustainable and decarbonizing technologies," across a number of industries, such as transportation and logistics, energy generation, manufacturing and food and agriculture.One of the recipients is Redwood Materials, founded by ex-Tesla CTO JB Straubel. Amazon is also investing in four other companies: CarbonCure Technologies, which has developed a technology to consume carbon dioxide in fresh concrete during production; climate technology start-up Pachama; smart motor start-up Turntide Technologies; and Rivian, an electric van start-up Amazon has invested in previously. Amazon also uses Rivian's electric vans across a portion of its delivery fleet.Amazon declined to say how much it's investing in each company, adding that the amounts range from hundreds of thousands in seed and early-stage investments to multimillion dollar investments. "The Climate Pledge Fund invests in visionary companies whose products and services can empower a low carbon economy," said Jeff Bezos, Amazon founder and CEO. "Today, I am excited to announce that we are investing in a group of companies that are channeling their entrepreneurial energy into helping Amazon and other companies reach net zero by 2040 and keep the planet safer for future generations."The fund is a part of Amazon's "Climate Pledge," which was first unveiled by Bezos last September. As part of the plan, Amazon has committed to be carbon neutral by 2040. It also pledged to meet the goals of the Paris climate agreement by 2040, a decade ahead of the Paris accord's goal. President Donald Trump withdrew the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement in 2017.Amazon previously said the $2 billion is an "initial" commitment, signaling that the fund could grow. The company said Thursday it's looking to get other Climate Pledge signatories involved in the venture capital fund, including Verizon, India-based Infosys and German automaker Daimler's Mercedes-Benz.Amazon has faced mounting pressure from employees to address its environmental impact. At Amazon's annual shareholder meeting in May 2019, thousands of employees submitted a proposal asking Bezos to develop a comprehensive climate-change plan and reduce its carbon footprint. The proposal was built on an employee letter published a month earlier that accused Amazon of donating to climate-delaying legislators and urged the company to transition away from fossil fuels. Since then, Amazon has made several moves to advance its goal of relying on renewable energy. As part of the Climate Pledge, Amazon agreed to purchase 100,000 electric delivery vans from Rivian, after it invested $440 million in the company.In April, Amazon invested $10 million to help conserve or restore forests in the U.S. Northeast. Additionally, Bezos in February pledged $10 billion to launch a new Earth Fund for combating climate change. It will issue grants to climate-oriented scientists and activists and other organizations to "preserve and protect the natural world."VIDEO5:2205:22Amazon will 'take over the world' from Walmart and keep growing: AnalystSquawk Box Asia

2020/11/27, An Amazon.com Inc worker prepares an order in which the buyer asked for an item to be gift wrapped at a fulfillment center in Shakopee, Minnesota, U.S., November 12, 2020.Amazon.com Inc | ReutersCheck out the companies making headlines in midday trading. Moderna — The drugmaker's stock jumped 16.4% after AstraZeneca's CEO said the company would run another trial on its coronavirus vaccine candidate amid questions over the drug's effectiveness. Pizer and BioNTech, which are also working on their own vaccine, gained 1.7% and 3.1%, respectively.Home Depot, Gap — Shares of retailers rose due to investor optimism around shopping for the Black Friday holiday. Shares of Home Depot ticked about 0.7% higher. Gap, TJX Companies, Dick's Sporting Goods, Etsy and toymaker Hasbro all rose on Friday.Amazon — Shares of Amazon gained about 0.3% as investors cheer what is expected to be a strong holiday shopping season for the e-commerce giant. Wall Street firm Truist estimated that Amazon will claim 42 cents of every dollar spent during the full year-end shopping season as the pandemic forces many Americans to shop online.Tesla — Shares of Tesla jumped more than 2%, bringing its weekly gains to more than 19% and its rally this year to 600%. The stock has been on a tear after it was selected for inclusion in the S&P 500 benchmark. The electric car-maker, which is worth more than $560 billion, could end Friday with a larger market cap than Warren Buffet's Berkshire Hathaway.AstraZeneca — The biopharmaceutical stock was flat after AstraZeneca's CEO told Bloomberg News that the company would run another phase-three trial for its Covid-19 vaccine candidate. A dosing error in the first trial resulted in patients receiving a smaller amount of the vaccine, though that appeared to be more effective than the full dosage.Carnival, MGM Resorts — Shares of stocks that hinge on the economy reopening rose amid a week of positive vaccine developments. Carnival rose 4.5% and Norwegian Cruise Line and Royal Caribbean gained 2% and 1.7%, respectively. Casinos stock MGM Resorts popped 0.8% and Wynn Resorts rose more than 0.8%. Mesa Air Group — Shares of the regional airline popped 7% following news that billionaire investor Ron Burkle owns a 7.8% stake in the company, an SEC filing showed. The stock is down nearly 30% in 2020 as the pandemic hit air travel.— CNBC's Maggie Fitzgerald, Jesse Pound and Fred Imbert contributed reporting.Subscribe to CNBC PRO for exclusive insights and analysis, and live business day programming from around the world.

2020/09/28, Men work at a distribution station in the 855,000-square-foot Amazon fulfillment center in Staten Island, New York.Johannes Eisele | AFP | Getty ImagesAmazon has finally set a date for this year's Prime Day after months of coronavirus-related delays.Prime Day will once again run two days this year, with discounts kicking off at midnight PT on Oct. 13 and lasting through Oct. 14, Amazon announced Monday. Members of Amazon's Prime subscription program will get access to "over 1 million deals across every category," including toys, electronics and apparel, the company said.It had already been speculated that Amazon would hold its marquee shopping event on Oct. 13 and 14, after the company sent around an internal notice and blacked out vacation requests for warehouse workers on those dates.Prime Day, which started in 2015, is typically held in July. The discount celebration is partially designed to secure new Prime subscribers, to promote Amazon's products and services, and to provide a sales boost in the middle of the year.Amazon was forced to put Prime Day on hold in the U.S. this year as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, which generated unprecedented strain on its warehouses and shipping and logistics networks.Like many retailers, Amazon was hit with a surge of online orders. The demand quickly caused supply chain shortages and delivery delays and it took several months for conditions to return to normal.Amazon settled on a mid-October Prime Day after it consulted with its global teams and spent several months adjusting operations inside its warehouses to make it safer for employees to continue to work, said Jamil Ghani, vice president of Prime, in an interview with CNBC last week. "We've proceeded adaptively and we've come to the decision that Oct. 13 and 14 is the right time for us to have Prime Day," Ghani said. "We feel like the preparation we've done all year and for 20 years before that ensures that we will have a successful and, very importantly, a safe Prime Day."The timing means that the holiday shopping period will begin earlier than ever. Typically, Amazon and other retailers might begin running promotions as the calendar ticks closer to Black Friday, which is the day after Thanksgiving and is the unofficial start to the holiday shopping season. Some Prime Day discounts and promotions are already launching on the site starting Monday, Amazon said. Retail rivals are starting to announce competing events to draw shoppers. Target said Monday that it will have two days of promotions, called Target Deal Days, on Oct. 13 and Oct. 14. It had a similar event last July that also coincided with Amazon Prime Day.Target shared few details, but said in a statement that it "will feature digital deals on hundreds of thousands of items, more than double last year."It's also unclear whether consumers will have as much of an appetite for holiday shopping this year amid widespread unemployment and shoppers prioritizing essential purchases. Industry watchers have predicted consumers may do more of their holiday shopping online in order to minimize trips in to the store. Ghani said he thinks shoppers will still seek out discounts despite the pandemic. "As much as things are different in 2020, there are some things that are the same, which is, we all want to celebrate the holiday season in the best way we can with friends and family," he added. "I expect there will be folks showing up for Prime Day shopping for themselves, some shopping for needs, some shopping for wants, others shopping for giftable items for the holiday, others trying to knock out their holiday shopping list early in order to spend some more time later with loved ones."As part of this year's Prime Day, Amazon will prominently feature promotions from small- and medium-sized businesses on its platform. Starting on Monday through Oct. 12, Amazon said it will give Prime members a $10 credit to use on Prime Day if they spend $10 on items sold by select small businesses on the site.-- CNBC's Melissa Repko contributed to this story.VIDEO3:0303:03Amazon unveils new hardware: Echo devices, Fire TV and new gaming streaming service LunaPower Lunch

2020/10/16, In this articleAMZNAmazon employees are told they can get health care on callAmazon Care, the company's online medical clinic for its own employees, is trying to hire half a dozen people in business development roles to "build and grow relationships with commercial and public sector enterprises." Most of the roles were posted in the past month.By building a business development team, the company is signaling an intention to go broader than its own employees. Amazon has a history of developing products that it tests out on its own workforce before expanding to a broader population.Moreover, a person familiar with the business unit's plans told CNBC that Amazon Care has started reaching out to health plans and employers in the Washington area to discuss opportunities to expand beyond its own employees. The plans are in an exploratory phase and may not result in expansion.Amazon Care, which launched as a pilot in the fall of 2019, offers a virtual medical clinic for employees and their dependents in Washington state. The goal is to make it easier to access high-quality primary care online, and at-home visits are also available in some areas.Amazon has increasingly moved into the medical sector in recent years. In 2018, it acquired PillPack, which offers at-home medication delivery, and has built a pharmacy team under that division. It also has a health and wellness unit focused on voice applications within its Alexa team. The company moved into the wearables market in August with a device known as Halo to track its users' health and fitness.Telemedicine represents a sizable market opportunity. It is expected to be worth more than $17 billion by 2026 as more people opt to engage with their doctors online. The coronavirus pandemic has accelerated that shift, with the federal government relaxing regulations to make it easier for doctors to get paid for an online visit.In September, Amazon Care announced that it had expanded its service from its headquarters in the Seattle area to all of its offices throughout Washington State.An Amazon spokesperson declined to comment.

2020/10/23, In this articleAMZNApple CardAppleSome Amazon users discovered on Friday that saved Apple Card numbers had been removed from their Amazon accounts. CNBC confirmed with two separate Amazon accounts that an Apple Card used to make a purchase on Thursday had been removed as a payment option on Friday.Amazon said it has not intentionally removed Apple Card as a payment option and blamed the problem on a bug."We are aware of this technical issue and are actively working to resolve it as soon as possible," an Amazon spokesperson said in a statement.Apple Card was launched last year as part of a partnership between Goldman Sachs, which functions as the bank and lender for the card, and the iPhone maker, which built software for it in the Apple Wallet app and markets the credit card to its customers.VIDEO16:0216:02Many of the reviews on Amazon are fake, here's how to spot themTechApple didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.While Apple Card is designed to be used for contactless payments with an iPhone or online purchases though the Apple Pay system, it is a Mastercard with a credit card number which can be used like any other credit card.That's how Apple Card holders can pay for purchases on Amazon with their Apple Card. Amazon does not accept Apple Pay, Apple's payment service.Last year, Bloomberg reported that card networks have designated the Apple Card as "elite," which means that it collects higher interchange fees per purchase. Those fees are paid by the merchants, who often feel they have no choice but to pay higher fees for "elite" cards. Mastercard has an arrangement where stores can't turn down elite cards with higher fees while taking other Mastercards with lower fees, Bloomberg reported.

2020/10/09, Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsChromecast with Google TVGoogleThe new $50 Chromecast with Google TV is Google's first real rival to Roku and Amazon Fire TV. It brings a lot of features that never existed on a Chromecast before, such as a full remote and brand-new Google TV software that makes it easier to find movies and TV shows. And it ties into all sorts of services, such as Hulu, HBO Max, Netflix and Disney+.Previously, the Chromecast let you play content on your computer, but you had to select content on your phone. Now it has a whole new software experience, which makes it feel a lot more like a Roku, an Amazon Fire TV or an Apple TV. It means Google might finally be able to take some market share away from leaders Amazon and Roku.Here's what you need to know about it.What's good about the Chromecast with Google TVZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsChromecast with Google TVGoogleThe new Chromecast is super simple to use. You just plug it in to your TV's HDMI port — every modern TV has one — and turn it on.The Google TV software has seven menu options at the top of the screen that are really straightforward: Search, For You, Live, Movies, Shows, Apps and Library. I like that the "For You" page pulls in movies and TV shows from subscriptions you pay for, such as Hulu or Netflix, and that you don't have to open those apps to see what might be popular in any of them.It also makes recommendations based on shows or movies you've watched. Best of all, it doesn't have any ads, like Roku and Amazon do.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsChromecast with Google TV remoteGoogleAll of this is easy to navigate with the remote. There's a button to search by voice, a home key, a back key, an omnidirectional circular bar for moving through apps, and dedicated buttons to launch YouTube and Netflix. You can also change TV inputs or adjust the volume from the remote.I really like that voice button since it syncs right into Google Assistant, much like a Fire TV can tap into Amazon Alexa. So, you can ask the weather and your TV will show you the forecast. Or, if you have a Google Nest camera, like I do, you can pull up a video feed on your screen. Google Assistant can tap into all sorts of stuff, such as Maps to show you where the nearest coffee shop is. Unlike Amazon Fire TV, however, you can't shop for stuff from the voice remote.Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsChromecast with Google TVGoogleThe "Live TV" page is great if you subscribe to YouTube TV, since it shows a traditional menu of shows that looks very similar to what you'd find on a cable box. And you can record unlimited shows with a YouTube TV subscription and pull them up on your TV or any device with the YouTube TV app. I had a few days where the channel I was watching would freeze, but it may have just been a slow internet connection where I had it placed.There are other things some people will care about, too, such as 4K support and Dolby Atmos for better surround sound. I use it on a 1080p TV and don't have Dolby Atmos speakers here, so I don't use those features, but it's great to have in a device that costs $50.What's bad about the Chromecast with Google TVZoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsChromecast with Google TVGoogleThere are a bunch of apps you can download for Google TV, but you really have to know what you're looking for because there's no dedicated "store" to browse through them all in one place. Instead, you have to browse through popular apps by category, such as "entertainment "or lifestyle." But, this can be kind of hard if you just want to download the Peloton app, for example. I just wish it had a more traditional store. Similarly, the "Library" tab is laid out really weird. If you've bought a bunch of movies through the Google Play Movies store, now simply called Google TV, on an Android phone, those all appear. But it's just a long horizontal list of what I own. I'd prefer a full page of movies and TV shows presented in alphabetical order. This could easily be fixed with software changes.Finally — and I know I'm in a very small percentage of users who care about this — the Chromecast with Google TV doesn't officially support Google's Stadia game streaming service yet. You can get it to work with fiddling around, but it's not quite there yet. Google is working to add this sometime next year.Should you buy the Chromecast with Google TV?Zoom In IconArrows pointing outwardsChromecast with Google TVGoogleIf you're looking for a new streaming TV, you really can't go wrong here. It's affordable, it ties into all sorts of services really well, it has a great remote, and it's easy to use. You'll benefit even more if you use the Google TV app on a phone to add movies and TV shows to your watchlist, which then sync to your TV. And you'll especially like it if you use YouTube TV.If you already have and like Amazon Fire TV or Roku, those are still great platforms with their own strengths. But if you've been looking for something different, the new Chromecast with Google TV is awesome.VIDEO2:2702:27Amazon and Google are becoming omnipresent whether you like it or notTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube. 

2020/11/25, VIDEO1:2901:29Amazon Web Services experiencing widespread outageThe ExchangeAmazon's cloud-computing service on Wednesday was hit with an outage that took down some websites and services.A notice on Amazon Web Services' status page said it was experiencing problems with Kinesis, its service that processes large streams of data, causing "increased error rates" for a number of websites. The outage also impacted its ability to post updates to the status page."We continue to work towards recovery of the issue affecting the Kinesis Data Streams API in the US-EAST-1 Region," according to a notice, which was posted late afternoon on Wednesday. "We also continue to see an improvement in error rates for Kinesis and several affected services, but expect full recovery to still take up to a few hours."Among the services that reported issues as a result of the outage were Amazon's smart security subsidiary Ring, Roku, software maker Autodesk, fintech lending company Affirm, Target's Shipt delivery service and the subway status site operated by New York City's Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Tribune Publishing properties the Baltimore Sun and the Chicago Tribune also reported errors.Major AWS customers including Apple, Slack and Netflix didn't appear to be experiencing any issues as a result of the outage.This is the first major outage to interrupt many customers since 2017, when the same US-EAST-1 Region experienced issues, knocking some websites offline.-- CNBC's Jordan Novet contributed to this report.

2020/11/10, In this articleAAPLFBAMZNU.S. President-elect Joe Biden arrives at the Queen Theater where later in the day he is scheduled to address the media about the Trump administration’s lawsuit to overturn the Affordable Care Act on November 10, 2020 in Wilmington, Delaware.Joe Raedle | Getty ImagesPresident-elect Joe Biden has given few hints at how he would approach concerns around the tech industry but his transition agency review teams are filled with several tech employees -- as well as a few prominent advocates of reform.The transition team disclosed the members of its agency review groups on Tuesday. Most of the tech employees listed are serving as volunteers, which the transition website says means they are serving in a personal capacity. The site says its members' most recent employers are listed "for informational purposes only."Still, the few clues President-elect Joe Biden has offered into his thinking on tech policy issues has left the industry and government watchdogs scouring for hints. While Biden criticized Facebook's handling of misinformation and said their liability shield should be "revoked" in an interview with the New York Times editorial board published earlier this year, he's offered few specifics on how he'd handle key concerns for the industry like potential antitrust charges.Groups like the Revolving Door Project have urged the Biden team to avoid bringing on people with corporate conflicts of interest, including from the tech industry. Their fear stems from the days of the Obama administration, where tech alums seamlessly rotated through the White House. Progressive groups have made clear they believe that sort of makeup should not be repeated.Biden's administration will be tasked with handling several high-profile tech policy matters, including the Justice Department's antitrust lawsuit against Google, a potential Federal Trade Commission lawsuit against Facebook, questions about content moderation, gig worker rights and net neutrality. Watchdog groups have worried that having former tech employees staff the administration could weaken efforts to regulate the industry.While no one listed on the agency review team has most recently worked for Google, one employee from its sister company Sidewalk Labs (also part of Alphabet) is on the review team for the Department of the Treasury.Nicole Wong, another member of the teams set to review the Office of Science and Technology Policy and the National Security Council, worked for Google and Twitter before serving as deputy chief technology officer under Obama.Austin Lin -- one of the few paid employees on the agency review teams -- most recently worked at the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, a charity founded by Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan. Lin's LinkedIn profile says he worked as a technical program manager for CZI from April 2018 to July 2020. He previously worked in the same role at Facebook for a year. Lin will be part of the teams reviewing the Executive Office of the President, Management and Administration and the National Security CouncilOther recent tech employees join as volunteers from companies including Airbnb, Amazon, Dell, DropBox, Microsoft's LinkedIn, Lyft, Stripe and Uber. Many had previously worked at the Obama White House. Some notable names include:Tom Sullivan, Amazon, on the international policy team (Department of State)Mark Schwartz, Amazon Web Services, enterprise strategist (Office of Management and Budget)Clare Gallagher, Airbnb, partnerships and events manager (National Security Council)Divya Kumaraiah, Airbnb, strategy and program lead (Office of Management and Budget)Brandon Belford, Lyft, senior director, chief of staff for public policy (Office of Management and Budget)Matt Olsen, Uber, chief trust and security officer (Intelligence Community)At the same time, several people who have been outspoken critics of the tech industry are also part of the agency review teams. Among them:Sarah Miller, executive director of the American Economic Liberties Project, which has called for the breakup of Facebook and Google. She will be reviewing the Treasury Department.Gene Kimmelman, a former antitrust official at the Department of Justice who has advocated for the creation of a new agency to regulate digital platforms, will be reviewing the DOJ.Apart from the agency review teams, Biden has brought some other tech employees into the fold. Former Facebook attorney Jessica Hertz was named to the transition team as an ethics arbiter, Politico reported last month. Former Apple lobbyist Cynthia Hogan helped Biden select a running mate and former Twitter public policy director Carlos Monje left his job for a role on the transition team, according to Politico.Correction: Tom Sullivan, an Amazon employee volunteering for the Biden agency review group for the State Department, is a member of its international policy team. WATCH: Here's why some experts are calling for a breakup of Big Tech after the House antitrust reportVIDEO2:3402:34Why some experts are calling for a breakup of Big Tech after the House antitrust reportTechSubscribe to CNBC on YouTube.

2020/12/14, Adam Jeffery | CNBC (This story is for CNBC PRO subscribers only.)Here are the biggest calls on Wall Street on Monday:

2020/11/10, In this photo illustration a Amazon Prime Video logo displayed on a smartphone.Mateusz Slodkowski | SOPA Images | LightRocket via Getty ImagesAmazon's Prime Video said on Tuesday it had acquired the rights for broadcasting New Zealand Cricket matches in India, marking the streaming service's first foray into live sports in its fastest-growing market.As part of the deal between Amazon and the New Zealand Cricket Board, Prime Video will exclusively stream all international cricket matches played in New Zealand for both men's and women's cricket, across all formats of the game beginning late 2021 and through to the 2025-2026 season, the company said in a statement."We are excited to add India's most loved game — cricket — to our content selection for our Prime Video customers, and we are thrilled to work with New Zealand Cricket on this endeavour ... and the cricketing rivalry between the two countries has been fantastic," said Gaurav Gandhi, India head of Amazon PrimeVideo.The New Zealand cricket board earlier announced a six-year domestic streaming deal with Spark Sport, which starts with matches against West Indies at home, starting later this month.Amazon has previously shown interest in the rights to India's Premier League cricket, while Facebook hadnarrowly lost out to Walt Disney-owned Star's combined bid for TV and digital rights for the popular 20-over tournament.Globally, Amazon has bet big on sports as a way to bolster its movie and originals catalogue. It live streams various sports, including Thursday Night Football, the Premier League, ATP Tour Events, and the U.S. Open tennis.In India, Amazon competes with global rivals Disney and Netflix.Its loyalty program Prime, which gives customers faster shipping and video and music streaming, costs 999 rupees ($13.51) for an annual subscription.

2020/09/22, In this articleAMZNAmazon employees are told they can get health care on callAmazon Care, the virtual health clinic for employees, is undergoing its first major expansion beyond the Seattle area. The service, which is available to Amazon employees and their dependents, is designed to make it easier to access primary care by letting employees exchange messages with a health-care provider or jump on a video visit. There are also at-home visits available in some ZIP codes, although these are not part of the expansion.The clinic, which launched as a pilot in September of 2019, is described on its website as a new benefit for employees that offers "the best of both virtual and in-person care."While most of Amazon's corporate employees in the state are located in Seattle and its suburbs, it also has fulfillment and other types of facilities in Spokane, Cheney, Vancouver and elsewhere. The company declined to say how many employees are being covered now. "This is the first big step," said Kristen Helton, director of Amazon Care, in an interview. "We're expanding our virtual service across the state." Helton said that the patient satisfaction score is 4.7 out of 5, which is a big factor behind the rollout. But she noted that Amazon Care is also looking at other measures, like quality, cost of care and convenience. Helton did not share any further expansion plans to other states where Amazon has a lot of large employees, such as California, but did say that the company is "building the service and looking to expand as much as we are able to."Amazon Care is just one of the projects that the company is working on in the health-care sector. It has a pharmacy division under PillPack, a company it acquired in 2018, and a research and development group known as Grand Challenge that has worked on health-related projects. It also recently released a wearable, dubbed Halo, which brings it into competition with companies like Apple and Fitbit. Telemedicine, which involves virtual visits between patients and clinicians, is an increasingly big opportunity. The technology has been around for decades, but it has accelerated during the Covid-19 pandemic as an alternative to in-person care.Amazon Care hasn't been immune from those changes, both as a tool to help employees who fear they might have Covid-19 or as a way to get routine care without risking exposure to the virus. "I think we have adapted well to increase the interest that Covid-19 has created," said Helton. "I would say that it has made services like Amazon Care more important."VIDEO1:1801:18Amazon plans primary care clinics for workers: SourcesPower Lunch

2020/10/05, Source: WalmartBrent Morgan is one of many Americans who have had a Walmart package dropped off at his home during the coronavirus pandemic. Yet his delivery did not fit the typical mold.A drone flew overhead and dropped a bag in his front lawn. Inside, there was an at-home Covid-19 test kit.The aerial delivery in Morgan's Las Vegas neighborhood is part of a new effort by Walmart to understand how drones could expand its on-demand deliveries and help it better compete with Amazon.Over the past month, Walmart has announced three deals with drone operators to test different uses for the drones. It's teamed up with Flytrex to deliver groceries and household essentials in Fayetteville, North Carolina. It plans to launch another pilot project with Zipline, a company best known for its medical drone deliveries in African countries like Ghana and Rwanda, for on-demand deliveries of health and wellness products early next year. And it's testing deliveries of at-home Covid-19 test kits with Quest Diagnostics and DroneUp in Las Vegas and Cheektowaga, a suburb of Buffalo, New York.Drones, once seen as futuristic or a novelty, have gained traction as a potentially mainstream way for retailers to deliver purchases to their customers. Growing e-commerce sales have intensified pressure on retailers to speed up deliveries and use quick turnaround times as a differentiator. More Americans have gotten used to drones, as they have seen them in the sky or bought a hobby drone of their own. And pandemic-related trends, such as shopping from the couch instead of the store aisle and limiting contact with strangers, could broaden their appeal, too.Tom Ward, Walmart's senior vice president of customer products, said drones could be another way to use its giant big-box stores "to serve customers in as many ways as we possibly can that suits their needs, whether that's speed or convenience.""Drones now are at a place where I think that technology represents a huge opportunity," he said.Yet Walmart and its rivals will have to overcome a variety of hurdles, such as bringing down the cost of deliveries and overcoming pushback from people who may see buzzing delivery vehicles over their backyard as a nuisance or invasion of privacy.Walmart has not released terms of its deals with the drone companies and would not say how it splits costs.Ward said the retailer is still testing and trying to better understand what consumers want and what the deliveries would cost. He said Walmart doesn't yet know when drone deliveries may become widely available across the U.S. "Where we see success and where we can see this proposition make sense for the customers and make sense for the business, we will move really quickly," he said. The 'drone wars'With the drone tests, the big-box retailer is trying to play catch-up with Amazon's dominant e-commerce business. Amazon's robotics team has built its own drones and received certification from the Federal Aviation Administration in late August to operate a fleet of Prime Air delivery drones. It comes under Part 135 of FAA regulations, which gives Amazon the ability to carry property on small drones "beyond the visual line of sight" of the operator. The approval gives Amazon broad privileges to "safely and efficiently deliver packages to customers," the agency said.United Parcel Service and Alphabet-owned Wing also have FAA approval for drone delivery.Walmart has taken a different tact, partnering with existing drone companies, instead of building and operating its own.Even as it steps into the drone wars, however, Ward said it has an edge: a huge footprint of more than 5,300 stores across the country, including its subsidiary Sam's Club. That could make it easier and cheaper for Walmart to deliver by drone, compared with Amazon, which relies on a network of large fulfillment centers often further from customers' neighborhoods. "With 90% of Americans within 10 miles of the Walmart, a drone is actually a fantastic solution that we're uniquely positioned to succeed in," Ward said.He said the retailer wants to better understand how customers might use drones. For example, he said, parents could order a thermometer or an over-the-counter medication late at night for a sick child. One of Walmart's top executives recently saw the drone testing up close. Walmart U.S. CEO John Furner visited Las Vegas last week to see a Covid-19 test delivered by DroneUp, one of the retailer's partners. In a LinkedIn post, he said the companies have already made 57 total flights with an average time of about 10 minutes and had delivered 24 at-home Covid-19 test kits to customers."One customer said they didn't think they'd see drone deliveries in their lifetime, but we're making it happen," he wrote.'Immediate gratification'Vijay Mookerjee, a business professor at the University of Texas at Dallas, said drone deliveries seem like a logical next step for retailers — particularly with the popularity of online shopping during the pandemic. He said the secret is shortening delivery times, so it's quicker than making a trip to a nearby store.He said faster deliveries by drone could create "immediate gratification," creating a loop that entices customers to buy more and decreases the number of items that customers leave behind in their virtual shopping carts. "It is not as much about a cost savings idea," he said. "It's about a demand expansion idea."Plus, he said, it could create another stream of revenue — if Amazon or Walmart offer drones as a service to retail competitors or vendors who sell in their marketplace.As the drone dropped off his delivery in late September, Morgan took a video  to share on Facebook. The 38-year-old said he decided to order a Covid-19 test kit for himself and his fiance as he prepared to return to work. The descending drone got attention from his neighbors, too, who stepped outside to watch.Morgan said he hopes the delivery is a preview of the future. He said he imagines ordering takeout by drone or having the new "Call of Duty" video game delivered to his home minutes after it hits shelves. "I am all for going full-on 'Jetsons,'" he said, referring to the cartoon about a family in the future that had flying cars and a housecleaning robot. "It's cool to see the world unfold before me."— CNBC's Annie Palmer contributed to this report.VIDEO1:2101:21Walmart and Zipline team up to bring their own drone delivery to the U.S.News Videos

2020/09/14, A view of Amazon Prime delivery vans in Amazon hub, Woodside, a day after protest in Staten Island Borough in New York City amid Coronavirus Pandemic on April 1, 2020.John Nacion | NurPhoto | Getty ImagesAmazon has made two key hires to its e-bike delivery team in New York City, including a former Uber manager, signaling it may be looking at the technology as another way to offer faster delivery times. Alex Vickers joined Amazon in June to serve as a senior program manager on the company's electric bikes unit. He previously worked on the business development team at Jump, an e-bike rental company which was Uber acquired in 2018 and then sold to mobility start-up Lime in May. Vickers announced his move to Amazon in a LinkedIn post on Monday.Amazon also hired Justin Ginsburgh in June to lead the e-bike team. Prior to Amazon, Ginsburgh co-founded New York City's Citi Bike bikeshare service and had leadership roles at JetBlue and Lyft-owned bikeshare service Motivate, where he worked alongside Vickers.  The recent hires indicate Amazon may be looking to e-bikes as another mode of transportation for last-mile delivery, the process of picking up packages from delivery stations and dropping them off at doorsteps, which is a critical and costly piece of the logistics puzzle for Amazon.Amazon has invested heavily to expand its last-mile delivery capabilities, launching Amazon-branded vans and a network of contracted Flex drivers, as well as testing self-driving delivery robots and a fleet of delivery drones. It has also opened up hundreds of delivery stations across the country over the past few years, which help ensure its two-day, and increasingly one-day, delivery speeds.Amazon told CNBC that it has been operating a fleet of roughly 200 pedal-assisted, e-cargo delivery bikes in New York City for the past 18 months. The bikes are being used by delivery service partners to make deliveries from three Whole Foods locations in parts of Manhattan and Brooklyn's Williamsburg neighborhood, with each bike carrying up to 45 packages, Amazon said. Amazon's delivery service partners — the third-party firms who handle last-mile deliveries — are required to train riders on safe operation of Amazon's e-cargo delivery bikes, which are housed and charged at Amazon facilities.Amazon plans to expand the e-bike service significantly in the coming months, after it was well received by customers, e-bike riders and service partners, the company said. An Amazon spokesperson declined to comment on how many employees make up its e-bike team, which is overseen by Amazon's last-mile delivery unit.The company had been testing electric cargo bikes for Whole Foods deliveries in New York City since last December, as part of a city-run pilot program aimed at easing congestion and reducing dependence on cargo vans for deliveries. Amazon continues to grow the team working on cargo bike delivery in New York City, according to a job listing posted in August.Amazon has conducted small tests of e-cargo bike delivery in a number of other cities, but New York City, where Vickers and Ginsburgh are based, remains its largest location. The company is testing out e-cargo bikes from a number of companies, including Raleigh, Haibike and Rad Power, with the goal of figuring out which one works best with its operations, Amazon said. Amazon has experimented with bike delivery before. It tested, then later shut down, bike delivery for its Prime Now delivery service in Seattle and New York City. Other companies like DoorDash, Uber Eats, Postmates and Grubhub, use bike couriers in New York City, but they're largely limited to food deliveries.VIDEO1:3901:39Amazon gets FAA approval to operate a fleet of delivery dronesNews Videos

2020/09/23, In this articleAMZNEchelon Prime bikeEchelonAmazon is distancing itself from the $500 "EX-Prime" bike launched by exercise equipment maker Echelon Fitness, after the product was incorrectly marketed as a collaboration between the two companies.Echelon on Tuesday announced the so-called Prime bike, calling it "Amazon's first-ever connected fitness product" that was "developed in collaboration with Amazon." The move was widely heralded as Amazon's first foray into the smart bike market and caused shares of exercise bike maker Peloton to fall as much as 6% on Tuesday. But on Tuesday evening, Amazon denied it was involved in a partnership with Echelon or the Prime bike. The company has told Echelon to stop selling the Prime bike and change its branding.Peloton shares hit a record high Wednesday.Amazon also appears to have pulled the product from its website, listing it as "currently unavailable." Amazon appears to have pulled Echelon's EX-Prime bike from its own website, listing it as "currently unavailable.""This bike is not an Amazon product or related to Amazon Prime," an Amazon spokesperson told CNBC. "Echelon does not have a formal partnership with Amazon. We are working with Echelon to clarify this in its communications, stop the sale of the product and change the product branding."Echelon spokesperson Marissa Mastellone said in a statement that the product was built by the company to sell exclusively on Amazon. Echelon is working to rebrand the product to "get it back up for sale as soon as possible," she added. Echelon expects the product to be relisted on Amazon's website once it's rebranded, Mastellone said. VIDEO16:0216:02Many of the reviews on Amazon are fake, here's how to spot themTech

2020/10/16, A worker prepares packages for delivery at an Amazon warehouse in Brieselang, Germany.Sean Gallup | Getty ImagesJust as soon as it wrapped up Prime Day, Amazon has already moved on to the holiday shopping season.Amazon on Friday launched its Holiday Dash sales event, which the company has pegged as a way for shoppers to "beat the holiday hustle" this year. It features a range of early holiday shopping deals every day across a number of categories, including toys, fashion, electronics and home goods.The event comes two days after Amazon's 48-hour Prime Day concluded on Wednesday. The mega-event provided a boost to third-party sellers, generating more than $3.5 billion in sales for the small and medium-sized businesses on its marketplace.Amazon was forced to postpone Prime Day from mid-July to October as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. The move rippled across the entire retail industry, forcing rivals Walmart, Target, Best Buy and others to launch discounts around Prime Day and pulling forward the holiday shopping season one month earlier.Many retailers are hoping that an early start to the holiday shopping season will lighten some of the load of online shopping and avoid any strain that might generate on their supply chains. Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals are expected to be primarily offered online, as retailers look to reduce crowding in stores.To compensate for the earlier start, Amazon has also extended its returns window, so that most items shipped now through Dec. 31 can be returned until Jan. 31, 2021.VIDEO10:2010:20How Amazon Prime Day drove record numbers for third-party sellers: CNBC After HoursCNBC After Hours

2020/10/16, In this articleAMZNJeff Bezos, founder and CEO of Amazon, pictured on September 13, 2018.Bloomberg | Getty ImagesAmazon's pandemic-delayed Prime Day appears to have been more disappointing than previous years, according to a note from Citi analysts published on Friday.Citi looked at web traffic information collected by market research firm SimilarWeb and found that Prime Day 2020 web traffic was basically flat year over year, compared to almost 8% growth in 2019.Amazon's publicity around Prime Day results was also muted compared to its language in the past, Citi analysts said. The company said Prime Day, which ran from Tuesday to Wednesday, provided a boost to third-party sellers, generating more than $3.5 billion in sales for the small and medium-sized businesses on its marketplace.The messaging was starkly different from years past. Citi analysts pointed to previous Prime Day results between 2016 to 2019, wherein Amazon characterized the event as its "biggest day ever" or the "largest shopping event in Amazon history.""Based on the language of Amazon's press releases and SimilarWeb data, it appears that Prime Day 2020 was not the 'biggest day ever,'" Citi analysts said.The analysts cited several factors that may have led to an underwhelming Prime Day, including the delayed kickoff from July to October, change in consumer behavior due to the coronavirus pandemic and proximity to the holiday shopping season.Even if Prime Day proved to be disappointing, Amazon still stands to benefit from the accelerated shift to online shopping spurred by the pandemic, Citi analysts said. Prime Day and the holiday shopping rush are expected to help fuel a record fourth quarter for Amazon.Amazon stock was slightly up in mid-day trading on Friday.VIDEO10:2010:20How Amazon Prime Day drove record numbers for third-party sellers: CNBC After HoursCNBC After Hours

